                                                                                    www.nature.com/scientificreports


             OPEN           Harnessing interpretable machine 
                            learning for holistic inverse design 
                            of origami
                            Yi Zhu1,2* & Evgueni T. Filipov1,2

                            This work harnesses interpretable machine learning methods to address the challenging inverse 
                            design problem of origami-inspired systems. We established a work fow based on decision tree-
                            random forest method to ft origami databases, containing both design features and functional 
                            performance, and to generate human-understandable decision rules for the inverse design of 
                            functional origami. First, the tree method is unique because it can handle complex interactions 
                            between categorical features and continuous features, allowing it to compare diferent origami 
                            patterns for a design. Second, this interpretable method can tackle multi-objective problems for 
                            designing functional origami with multiple and multi-physical performance targets. Finally, the 
                            method can extend existing shape-ftting algorithms for origami to consider non-geometrical 
                            performance. The proposed framework enables holistic inverse design of origami, considering 
                            both shape and function, to build novel reconfgurable structures for various applications such as 
                            metamaterials, deployable structures, soft robots, biomedical devices, and many more.

                            Origami, the art of folding paper, provides a method to build novel 3D engineering structures from fat 2D 
                             surfaces1,2. Tese origami structures can be used in a variety of applications such as biomedical  devices3,4, micro/
                            sof  robots5–7, frequency selective  surfaces8,9,  metamaterials10,11, aerospace structures 12,13, and many more. Over 
                            the years, there have been a number of inverse design methods proposed for origami  systems14–17, but these 
                            methods and algorithms only solve kinematic design problems like ftting origami to arbitrary shapes and geom-
                            etries. Designing functional origami structures for general engineering applications is still difcult because these 
                            active origami systems can have highly nonlinear motions, variable properties, and unintuitive multi-physical 
                            behaviors. Properly addressing a generic inverse design problem of origami requires considering the interaction 
                            between categorical and continuous features and handling formulations with multiple multi-physical objectives. 
                            Tese problems are difcult to handle with existing optimization-based inverse design methods for origami shape 
                            ftting so new solutions are needed.
                              Machine learning has proven to be a versatile and powerful method to solve physical science  problems18, 
                            fnancial  problems19, biomedical  problems20, E-sport  games21, etc. Moreover, a large number of diferent machine 
                            learning methods like neural  network22, rule  list23,  boosting24, random  forest25, and others have been developed 
                            to solve problems of diferent size, complexity, and nature. Because of the broadness and diversity of these meth-
                            ods, one key challenge on using machine learning is to select the appropriate method for a given problem. For 
                            origami type problems, machine learning techniques have been used to predict chaotic dynamic  responses26 and 
                            to solve for origami folding  motions27. In addition, interpretable machine learning techniques were also used 
                            for handling design problems for metamaterials systems that have diferent input data types when compared 
                            to  origami28. However, no prior work has tackled the inverse design problem for origami using interpretable 
                            machine learning techniques.
                              In this work, we show that an interpretable machine learning method called the decision tree method and its 
                            ensemble version called random  forest25,29 are particularly suitable for the inverse design of functional origami. 
                            Figure 1 summarizes the fundamental idea of this work. Te design of origami can be thought of as building a 
                            nonlinear function f  to calculate the performance indices of the system (such as stifness, Poisson’s ratio, mate-
                            rial cost, etc.) based on given design features (such as the number of origami cells, the thickness of materials, 
                            sector angles of the origami pattern, etc.). Usually, numerical simulations are used to represent this function f  
                            because it is too complex to be expressed in a closed form. In a traditional setting, designing origami structures 
                            is accomplished through plotting and observing the relationships between the features and the performance 
                            using nonlinear simulation methods 30,31. To extend this traditional design method to an inverse design setup, 

                            1Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, USA. 2Department of 
                            Mechanical Engineering, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, USA. *email: yizhucee@umich.edu

Scientifc Reports |        (2022) 12:19277  | https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-022-23875-6                                 1
                                                                                                                     Vol.:(0123456789)