www.nature.com/scientificreports/


                            Figure 2.  Computing interpretable design rules for origami assemblages. (a) Te problem setup for the single 
                            unit Miura-ori cell. Te axial stifness is computed for the folded origami with supports on the lef and axial 
                            loads on the right. (b) A database of Miura-ori design features and resulting axial stifness performance is 
                            populated using a physics-based origami simulator. Data points are labeled based on whether they meet the 
                            target performance or not (axial stifness k < 6000 N/m). (c) A number of decision trees are trained to classify 
                            the database. (d) Design rules are gathered by collecting the splitting criteria in each branch of the decision tree 
                            (following the gray lines in the sub-fgure (C)). (e) Representative rules are selected based on the precision, the 
                            recall, and the number of data points satisfying the rules. In this case, the rule 1 (blue dot) is better than the rule 
                            2 (orange box) and the rule 3 (pink cross) because it has high precision and recall. (f) A fnal design rule with 
                            the highest F-score is picked. Te box chart contains the full range for all features, while the shaded regions 
                            indicate the fnal design rule for the target performance. A Miura-ori design that follows the fnal rule is shown 
                            (indicated with dark lines in the box chart).

                             SWOMPS34 (step 2 in Fig. 2b). Te SWOMPS package is used in this paper because it is computationally efcient 
                            and can capture multi-physical behaviors important for many origami designs 35,36 (see Materials and Methods). 
                            Tis simulation package is based on a bar and hinge mechanics representation of origami systems and contains 
                            a reduced-order model for electro-thermally actuated creases. Te simulation results of this package have been 
                            verifed against both FE simulations and physical experiments 35,36 so the generated database is representative of 
                            realistic behaviors in active origami structures. Based on the simulated performance of each data point, we assign 
                            class labels depending on if the design can achieve the target performance or not (step 3 in Fig. 2b). Data points 
                            that meet the target ( k < 6000 N/m ) are assigned a label of 1 while the remaining samples are assigned a label of 0.
                              Next, we use the design features and the class labels to set up a supervised learning problem that can be solved 
                            using the decision tree-random forest method. Te method is trained to diferentiate designs that meet the target 
                            performance (with label 1) from those that do not (with label 0) based on the design feature values. Figure 2c 
                            shows a sample decision tree for the design problem of the Miura-ori unit cell. To determine the class of a data 
                            point, we send the data point into the tree from the top. Each time the data point encounters a branch node, 
                            a simple criterion is checked to determine if the point should go to the lef branch or to the right branch. For 
                            example, a datapoint with tp = 1.1 mm at the frst node of the sample decision tree (shown on Fig. 2c) will be sent 
                            to the lef branch because tp = 1.1 mm < 2.1 mm . Afer a series of judgments, the data point will be sent to a leaf 
                            node, where no more branching occurs, and a class label is predicted. For example, the datapoint listed in column 
                            one of the Table in Fig. 2b will follow the gray arrow (marked as “Rule 1”) downward and be judged as a Class 
                            1 data. Tis means the machine learning algorithm thinks that this feature design (t c = 0.78 mm , tp = 1.1 mm , 

Scientifc Reports |        (2022) 12:19277  | https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-022-23875-6                                 3
                                                                                                                     Vol.:(0123456789)