        www.nature.com/scientificreports/


                                    Figure 1.  Interpretable machine learning for inverse design of origami. Te relationship between origami 
                                    design features (lef) and performance of origami systems (right) can be thought of as a black-box nonlinear 
                                    function f  . Tis work shows that it is possible to train an interpretable machine learning method (a decision 
                                    tree-random forest method at the bottom) to uncover the underlying structure of this black-box nonlinear 
                                    function f  , so that we can build human understandable design rules to solve the inverse design problem (solve 
                                         1
                                    for f − ).

                                    one needs to construct an inverse relationship f −1 that calculates a set of design features from the target perfor-
                                    mance. In this work, we show that it is possible to compute this inverse relationship f −1 by frst populating an 
                                    origami performance database and then applying interpretable machine learning to ft the database (approximat-
                                    ing f  ). Unlike standard “black box” machine learning methods, interpretable machine learning can produce 
                                    human-understandable decision rules with which people can understand why certain judgments are made by 
                                    the  algorithms32,33. Once an interpretable approximation of the nonlinear function f  is obtained, the inverse 
                                    relationship f −1 can be constructed. Trough our implementation and exploration of the decision tree method 
                                    for functional origami systems, we found that selecting the “more informative” branches provides useful design 
                                    rules for this set of problems (fnding the inverse relationship f −1).
                                      In the following sections, we demonstrate how to resolve the origami inverse design problem as a data sci-
                                    ence and machine learning problem. We show how to build the origami performance database and use the 
                                    decision tree-random forest method to compute human-understandable decision rules for the inverse design 
                                    of functional origami. First, we demonstrate the methodology using a simple design problem on Miura origami 
                                    cells. Next, we show that the proposed method can handle categorical features and compare diferent origami 
                                    patterns for a more complex origami metasheet design problem. We then show that the tree-based method 
                                    can tackle multi-objective and multi-physical problems by designing a set of electro-thermal origami grippers. 
                                    Finally, with a design problem on origami arches, we demonstrate that the proposed method can enable origami 
                                    shape ftting algorithms to further consider non-geometrical properties so that holistic origami design can be 
                                    achieved. Tese examples show that the decision tree-random forest method ofers unprecedented versatility 
                                    for the inverse design of origami systems.
                                    Results
                                    Computing origami design rules with interpretable machine learning.       Tis section introduces 
                                    how the decision tree-random forest method can be used to compute design rules for the inverse design of 
                                    origami systems. To demonstrate the methodology, we use a simple design problem on Miura-ori unit cells 
                                    as presented in Fig. 2a. Te design objective is to fnd a Miura-ori unit cell to have an axial stifness k smaller 
                                    than 6000 N/m (target performance: k < 6000 N/m ). Te Miura-ori cell is cut from a square sheet and is 
                                    folded to a 60% extension ratio, defned using the ratio between the folded length and fat length of the pattern 
                                    ( Ext = L′/L = 60% ). Te axial stifness is calculated by fxing the unit cell at one end and applying small forces 
                                    to stretch it at the other end. For this problem, four design variables (features) are used including the thickness 
                                    of panels (t p ), the thickness of creases (t c ), the width of creases (W  ), and the sector angle of the Miura-ori pattern 
                                    (γ  ). We determine the design ranges for these features based on practical fabrication and material limits, and 
                                                                                                                ◦          ◦
                                    they are: 1.0 mm < tp < 6.0 mm , 0.5 mm < tc < 1.0 mm , 1.0 mm < W < 4.0 mm , and 50 <γ <80 .
                                      To build a database for training the machine learning model, we randomly create designs using diferent 
                                    feature values within the specifed ranges (step 1 in Fig. 2b). Each column of the table in Fig. 2b represents one 
                                    design (data point) and 1000 random designs are generated for this example problem. Next, we compute the 
                                    axial stifness (or the performance) for each data point using a physics-based origami simulation package called 

        Scientifc Reports |        (2022) 12:19277  | https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-022-23875-6                                 2
Vol:.(1234567890)