www.nature.com/scientificreports/


                            Figure 4.  Design of an origami gripper with multi-physics and multiple objectives. (a) Problem setup for 
                            building active electro-thermal origami grippers with three diferent patterns. (b–d) Te top two design rules 
                            of designing the grippers for three diferent multi-objective targets (Targets 1 to 3). (e) Te top two design rules 
                            for Target 3 give distinct design alternatives where a diferent origami pattern is selected, yet both data point 
                            distributions meet the given target.

                            requirement. While Pattern 3 was selected for Target 1, its horizontal creases cannot provide additional stifness 
                            to resist prying, so Pattern 2 is now selected to achieve Target 2. Tis high interpretability of the tree methods 
                            helps users to better understand and reason about the desired behaviors of functional origami systems. Moreover, 
                            the machine learning method also shows how important each feature is for diferent design targets. For example, 
                            controlling the values of the gripping arm length L1 and the location of the frst creases (defned by Ra ) is only 
                            important for Target 2 but not for Target 1.
                              In general, the design rules with the highest F-scores obtained from the machine learning method tend to 
                            be similar to each other. However, Fig. 3d shows an interesting result where the top two competing rules have 
                            relatively large diferences between them. Te large diference is because the two rules select diferent origami 
                            patterns, and the machine learning method thinks that both of these rules are appropriate for the desired design. 
                            Rule 1 of Target 3 selects Pattern 1 while Rule 2 selects Pattern 2. Tese results highlight that by computing 
                            multiple rules with high F-scores, it is possible to fnd distinct design alternatives that can all achieve the desired 


Scientifc Reports |        (2022) 12:19277  | https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-022-23875-6                                 7
                                                                                                                     Vol.:(0123456789)