        www.nature.com/scientificreports/


                                    Figure 5.  Integrating the machine learning method with shape ftting for holistic inverse design of origami. (a) 
                                    Defnitions for a modifed Miura-ori design that can ft arbitrary curved shapes. Geometrical design features 
                                    for the modifed Miura include the number of units m , the ofset length lo , the width of the strip Ws , and the 
                                    extrusion length le . (b) Four performance indices are studied including the error of ftting e , the stifness in X 
                                    and Z directions kx and kz , and a binary variable Sz that indicates if the structure will snap if loaded with a 5 N 
                                    load in the Z direction. (c) Computed rules for three diferent targets and corresponding sample designs.

                                    performance. Because Target 3 is 2-dimensional, we present the data points that ft the rules in both the training 
                                    and testing datasets in Fig. 3e. Te result shows that the extracted data points can trace the design boundary 
                                    nicely and fll the design boundary with reasonable coverage.
                                      Te results from this section demonstrate the capability for the tree method to design functional origami 
                                    systems where multiple objectives with multi-physical performance indices are of interest. Moreover, the pre-
                                    sented examples show that this methodology can provide alternative design options when they are available.

                                    Design for non-geometrical properties together with origami shape ftting.     Finally, we demon-
                                    strate how the proposed method can enable origami shape ftting algorithms to further consider non-geomet-
                                    rical properties of the origami so that a holistic design can be accomplished. So far, most research on origami 
                                    inverse design focuses on geometric shape ftting (such as those  in14,15,17). Usually, the shape ftting problem can 
                                    be constructed as an optimization problem, where the error between the target geometry and the origami is 
                                    minimized given certain  constraints14,15. However, these existing shape ftting studies cannot consider the non-
                                    geometrical properties that determine the functional performance of origami systems. Moreover, these shape 
                                    ftting algorithms ofen leave tremendous fexibility for a designer to vary the origami pattern (e.g. number of 
                                    panels used or maximum size of panels), without showing which combination may be better. Tus, this section 
                                    will demonstrate how the proposed method can enable existing origami shape ftting algorithms to consider the 
                                    interaction between the shape ftting and non-geometrical behaviors of the origami systems.
                                      As a demonstration, we implement our method on top of an existing shape ftting approach introduced in 14, 
                                    where an analytical solution was derived to build Miura-origami strips to ft arbitrary planar curves. Figure 5a 
                                    shows how this shape ftting method can generate diferent origami strips to ft a target planar curve. In this 
                                    method, the target curve is frst separated into a specifed number of segments defned by m . Ten a planar ori-
                                    gami strip geometry is generated by setting the ofset length lo of the center node and the width of the strip Ws . 
                                    Finally, the 3D origami is created by extruding the planar geometry to form the Miura geometry with an extru-
                                    sion length le . Figure 5a shows the shape ftting results for three diferent curves. As can be seen, there is great 
                                    fexibility in selecting these parameters for shape ftting and the selection can now depend on which combination 

        Scientifc Reports |        (2022) 12:19277  | https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-022-23875-6                                 8
Vol:.(1234567890)