www.nature.com/scientificreports/

                            gives a more desirable non-geometric performance. Suppose our target is to build an origami structure that 
                            can achieve a given stifness performance while ftting a target shape, how should we select these shape ftting 
                            parameters and other design features of the origami? Te proposed machine learning based method is able to 
                            answer questions like this.
                              Without loss of generality, we focus on designing a Miura-origami half-circle arch with a 2 m radius. 
                            Te origami arch database is generated by randomly picking shape ftting design features and other origami 
                            design features. The shape fitting features include the number of segments ( m ={8, 12, 16, 24} ), the off-
                            set length (100 mm < lo < 300 mm ), the strip width (10 mm < Ws < 40 mm ), and the extrude dimension 
                            (50 mm < le < 250 mm ). Other design features such as the thicknesses of panels (1.0 mm < tp < 6.0 mm ) and 
                            creases ( 0.5 mm < tc < 1.0 mm ) and the width of creases (1.0 mm < W < 4.0 mm ) are also included because 
                            they afect the stifness of the arch. Based on these features, we compute and record the responses of 3000 random 
                            origami designs using the SWOMPS simulation package to populate a database. Te performance indices include 
                            the stifness in X-direction ( kx ) and Z-direction ( kz ), the error of shape ftting ( e ), and whether the structure 
                            will snap or buckle under a 5 N load applied vertically ( Sz ) (see Supplementary Materials Section S2 for details).
                              With the database established, we apply the proposed inverse design method to analyze the database. Because 
                            the decision tree-random forest method can handle a mixture of categorical and continuous variables, it can 
                            consider the integer variables used in shape ftting algorithm. Moreover, because the method can also tackle 
                            multi-objective problems, we can design for diferent combinations of shape-ftting errors and stifness targets. 
                            Target 1 in Fig. 5c represents a target with stricter stifness requirement but a less strict shape ftting objec-
                            tive while Target 2 has a more relaxed stifness requirement but a stricter error objective. Both targets contain 
                            about 5% of the total data, so they are comparable in terms of overall design selectiveness. Figure 5c shows the 
                            computed decision rules for the two targets and indicates that both rules have reasonably high precision. Tis 
                            result demonstrates that the machine learning method can produce diferent design rules to accommodate the 
                            interactions between desired shape ftting error and mechanical performance. More importantly, the proposed 
                            machine learning method is not tied to specifc origami patterns or shape ftting methods. Tus, the proposed 
                            methodology can be combined with other origami shape ftting approaches, such as those  in14,15,17, to enable 
                            a holistic inverse design of origami that considers both shape and non-geometrical function or performance.
                              Next, we show that the proposed method can design origami systems with complex mechanical behaviors 
                            such as bistability and multi-stability39,40. Target 3 in Fig. 5c shows the design rules for an origami arch to exhibit 
                            a snap-through behavior under a vertically applied 5 N load. Unlike designing for a stif arch with small ftting 
                            errors, the machine learning method shows that only the designs with more segments (larger m ) in the strip 
                            can experience the snapping behavior. Moreover, it is necessary to have a low panel thickness and a low crease 
                            thickness so that the origami is more likely to snap. Te testing precision of this design rule is high, indicating 
                            that the design rule is reliable and accurate.
                              Here, we have demonstrated one design scenario for shape ftting a Miura origami pattern to an arch geom-
                            etry. However, we believe the versatility of the proposed framework can be readily extended to other origami 
                            shape ftting methods and even to freeform-origami design methods (such as those  in41). For example, suppose 
                            that the origami geometry is allowed to slightly deviate from the target center line in order to achieve better 
                            mechanical behaviors. Ten, in addition to the design features shown in Fig. 5, new xyz directional ofsets of 
                            selected control vertices on the Miura arch can be used to generate diferent free-form variations of the geometry. 
                            With the directional ofsets used as additional design features, it would be possible to simultaneously design for 
                            both the geometry and mechanical/non-mechanical performances of free-form origami structures.
                            Discussion
                            In this section, we further discuss our reasoning on the implication behind the obtained results. We will start with 
                            data generation. In general, we believe reduced order simulation methods like the SWOMPS  package34 are good 
                            for populating origami performance databases, because these methods can capture the multi-physical active fold-
                            ing in origami with reasonable accuracy 35,36 and they are computationally efcient. To further improve the validity 
                            of the inverse design results, the populated origami performance database can be augmented with experimental 
                            data and/or high-fdelity FE simulations. By training the decision tree-random forest method with higher weight 
                            added to the experimental data points, the inverse design results can be made more representative and realistic.
                              Next, when labeling the dataset based on target performance, we fnd that it is common to generate imbal-
                            anced databases because those data points that meet our target performance tend to be sparse (engineering 
                            design usually targets rarer performances). It is possible to make the database more balanced by using domain 
                            knowledge to preselect sample zones or even rule out non-relevant design features. Nonetheless, this work 
                            shows that the proposed method can handle the inverse design problem without using techniques to balance 
                            out imbalance databases. Tis work uses the sklearn package to train the decision tree-random forest method 
                            and uses the embedded imbalanced weight to handle the imbalance dataset.
                              Tis work demonstrates that it is possible to fnd the representative combination of design features for inverse 
                            design of origami systems by fnding the tree branches with higher F-score. Tis strategy is similar to fnding 
                            the better classifer from a pool of classifers using the F-score, but focusing on a sparser tree branch. Focusing 
                            on a few high performing branches in the decision tree-random forest method produces design rules with high 
                            interpretability for solving the inverse design problem. Analysis from Section S3.4 shows that better inverse 
                            design results can be obtained by using larger origami dataset and the method is not afected by overftting 
                            issues because using a tree branch for inverse design enforces a highly sparse structure. Moreover, results in 
                            Section S3.5 further highlight that the proposed methodology can produce stable inverse design results under 
                            diferent training/testing data partition, which is usually not achievable when using a single decision tree. Tese 


Scientifc Reports |        (2022) 12:19277  | https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-022-23875-6                                 9
                                                                                                                     Vol.:(0123456789)