        www.nature.com/scientificreports/


                                    results show the beneft of focusing on sparser tree branches for solving the inverse design problem than using 
                                    the standard decision tree method.
                                      In summary, this work establishes a novel inverse design method for functional origami structures using 
                                    an interpretable machine learning method. First, the origami performance database can be populated using 
                                    reduced-order simulation methods like the SWOMPS package. Afer populating the databases, the data points 
                                    are classifed into two classes depending on whether they meet the specifed target performance, which casts a 
                                    binary classifcation problem. Afer setting up the target performance, the decision tree-random forest method 
                                    was trained to identify origami patterns and design features in origami structures that achieve a specifed target 
                                    performance. Finally, origami design rules were computed by backtracking the splitting criteria associated with 
                                    each tree branch and selecting the rules with the highest F-score.
                                      To test the performance and versatility of the proposed method we built databases for four design scenarios, 
                                    including: (1) Stifness of a single unit Miura-ori, (2) Stifness of origami metasheets, (3) Multi-physical perfor-
                                    mance of electro-thermal origami grippers, and (4) Stifness and shape ftting of origami arches. We believe these 
                                    four databases populated in this work can be reused for generating new designs or for testing the performance 
                                    of other machine learning algorithms when applied to analyze origami related data.
                                      Future research could explore and improve the reliability and performance of the proposed method by using 
                                    other state-of-the-art training methods for decision trees (like the Generalized and Scalable Optimal Sparse 
                                    Decision  Trees42 and the Optimal Classifcation  Trees43). In addition, it would be possible to make the origami 
                                    performance database more representative by including data points generated with high fdelity FE simulations 
                                    and/or experiments. Addressing potential shifs between the distribution of simulated and experimental data 
                                    and assigning diferent weights to the simulated and experimental results are two interesting problems that 
                                    would need further investigation. Moreover, the inverse design results presented in this work have not yet been 
                                    experimentally verifed and tested. Physical experiments could be used to judge the performance of this inverse 
                                    design framework under realistic engineering conditions.
                                      As a concluding remark, we want to summarize the benefts of using this data science and interpretable 
                                    machine learning based approach for origami inverse design when compared to using existing optimization-
                                    based strategies. First, any generated database can be reused to compute new rules for diferent targets, or in 
                                    other words to fnd appropriate designs for diferent scenarios. Second, the proposed method can simultaneously 
                                    analyze the signifcance of design features for a given design target, which is not provided in optimization-based 
                                    design methods. If a design feature is important for achieving a given performance target, a relatively tight thresh-
                                    old of that feature will be identifed. Tird, the proposed method demonstrates the complex interaction between 
                                    continuous variables and categorical variables. Identifying these interactions is necessary for designs where 
                                    comparing diferent origami patterns will naturally introduce categorical variables that cannot be captured with 
                                    continuous optimization-based design methods. Fourth, we show that the proposed method can handle multi-
                                    objective design targets for active origami systems with multi-physical behaviors. Finally, we demonstrate that 
                                    the proposed method can extend existing origami shape ftting algorithms to further design for non-geometrical 
                                    performance of origami structures, which together enables a holistic framework for inverse design of functional 
                                    origami. We envision that the proposed methodology can be used for designing active origami systems with 
                                    superior performance for various applications in biomedical devices, sof robotics, metamaterials, deployable 
                                    structures, and many more.
                                    Methods
                                    Origami simulation.    Tis work uses an open-access origami simulation package called SWOMPS 34. Tis 
                                    origami simulator uses a common simulation technique called the bar and hinge model to represent the geom-
                                    etry of origami systems. Tis simulator can explicitly model compliant origami creases (folds with distributed 
                                    width) which makes it suitable for simulating the behaviors of practical origami structures 35. In addition, the 
                                    simulator package integrates a state-of-the-art multi-physics model to capture the electro-thermal  actuation36 
                                    important for active origami assemblages. Other origami simulation techniques may be used for capturing dif-
                                    ferent performance of interest, and the reference 44 provides a summary of diferent origami simulation tech-
                                    niques. Te implementation codes for building origami databases are thoroughly discussed in the Supplemen-
                                    tary Materials and are available on the GitHub page: https:// github. com/ zzhuy ii/ Gener ateOr igami DataS et. A 
                                    more detailed introduction of the underlying origami simulation method and how it is applied in each design 
                                    example can be found in the Supplementary Text Sections S1 and S2.

                                    Training the decision tree-random forest method.     Tis work uses an open-access package  sklearn36 
                                    to train the decision tree-random forest machine learning method. More specifcally, the sklearn package imple-
                                    ments a classical decision tree method, where the trees are trained using suboptimal greedy approaches. Other 
                                    state-of-the-art tree methods (like the Generalized and Scalable Optimal Sparse Decision  Trees41 and the Opti-
                                    mal Classifcation  Trees42) could be used in the future to further improve the performance. When training deci-
                                    sion trees, an entropy-based criterion is used to identify the best splitting rules at branch nodes. Because the 
                                    target class tends to contain only a small number of data (5% to 10%), the balanced class weight is used to tackle 
                                    the imbalanced dataset. Te results computed in the main article are accomplished using the following hyperpa-
                                    rameters: the cost-complexity-pruning alpha value is 0.001, the maximum depth of trees is 20, and the number 
                                    of training trees is 100. Te details on the hold-out testing and hyperparameter selection can be found in the 
                                    Supplementary Text Section S3.

                                    Finding the inverse design rules.  Tis work shows that each tree branch for data points that meet the 
                                    target performance can be treated as a design rule for an origami system. With this in mind, the work further 

        Scientifc Reports |        (2022) 12:19277  | https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-022-23875-6                                10
Vol:.(1234567890)