        www.nature.com/scientificreports/


                                    as 1 and the rest of the data as 0. Afer labeling, we can use the procedure in Fig. 2 to compute the design rules 
                                    for this target. Te design rule with the best performance is shown in the lef column of Fig. 3b. We can then 
                                    repeat the process for the other three target zones (Zone a2 to a4) by reusing the existing database. Te computed 
                                    rules for all targets are shown in Fig. 3b, and this series of rules tells us how the preferred design for an origami 
                                    metasheet changes as the target for axial stifness is increased. Interestingly, the machine learning method prefers 
                                    changing the continuous variables to achieve the diferent axial stifness targets without paying much attention 
                                    to the categorical features used to represent diferent origami patterns. More specifcally, the machine learning 
                                    method suggests that controlling the thickness of creases (t c ) and the width of the creases (W  ) are more impor-
                                    tant than other parameters because tighter thresholds are used for these two features. Two sample metasheet 
                                    designs for target Zones a1 and a3 are shown in Fig. 3d. Te resulting performance of these designs indeed falls 
                                    within the desired targets.
                                      However, the design rules can be very diferent when we study the bending stifness at 90% extension. Simi-
                                    larly, four design rules are computed for four diferent target zones as shown in Fig. 3c. Here, we set the targets 
                                    to contain less data points in order to test out how well the proposed method performs when dealing with unbal-
                                    anced databases, where the targets only contain around 5% of the total data. When we investigate the result of 
                                    this series of design rules, we see that the machine learning method is paying more attention to the categorical 
                                    features. As the target moves from one zone to another, the computed design rules change in a non-continuous 
                                    manner because of the complex interactions between categorical variables and continuous variables. For example, 
                                    when the target changes from Zone b2 to Zone b3 where we have a stifer target, the machine learning method 
                                    indicates that increasing the thickness of the panel is sufcient to meet the target. However, when we further 
                                    increase bending stifness requirement as we move from Zone b3 to Zone b4, the method suggests that it is bet-
                                    ter to change the categorical features (number of cells) and the continuous features simultaneously. A similar 
                                    categorical jump is also observed when the target moves from Zone b1 to Zone b2. Te proposed method can 
                                    capture these complex interactions between the continuous features and categorical features, which cannot be 
                                    done with optimization-based design methods.
                                      To consider the infuence of material properties on the inverse design problem, we add two design features 
                                    representing the Young’s moduli of creases and panels. Te inverse design results with this new database are 
                                    demonstrated in Fig. 3e and f. Te results show that the proposed methodology can still handle the problem 
                                    relatively well afer adding in the new material design features, and that there are still complex interactions 
                                    between categorical and continuous features like those we found in Fig. 3c. Adding the material properties 
                                    does not change the underlying mathematical formulations of this inverse design framework, so the proposed 
                                    methodology is still applicable to the problem.
                                    Multi-objective design for multi-physical functional origami
                                    Handling multiple objectives is ofen necessary for designing functional origami structures because these systems 
                                    exhibit multi-physical behaviors that need to be measured and compared using several diferent indices. Because 
                                    such multi-objective problems are difcult to handle with standard optimization-based techniques, most existing 
                                    functional origami systems were designed using trial-and-error approaches 4–6. In this section, however, we dem-
                                    onstrate that the tree method can efectively handle multi-physical behaviors and can simultaneously consider 
                                    multiple objectives. To this end, we present an example design for an electro-thermally actuated origami gripper 
                                    where dynamics, power consumption, thermal behavior, and stifness are all of interest (see Fig. 4).
                                      In this example, one of three origami gripper patterns can be selected to achieve the target gripping motion 
                                    (closing the gripping tip to less than a 1 mm gap). We assume that the gripper is actuated at the creases using an 
                                    electro-thermal bi-layer system demonstrated in Fig. 4a and discussed in detail  in7. Tis actuator contains two 
                                    material layers with diferent coefcients of thermal expansion where one layer also serves as an electro-thermal 
                                    heater (the top layer in this case). Joule heating causes diferential expansion in the two layers, local curvature at 
                                    the crease, and global folding of the origami patterns. Design features for the gripper include one categorical vari-
                                    able p used to describe the pattern, and seven continuous variables including the length (3.0 mm < L1 < 7.0 mm ) 
                                    and width ( 2.0 mm < L2 < 4.0 mm ) of the gripper arm, the location of the frst hinge (0.2 < Ra < 0.6) , the 
                                    width of the actuator creases (100 µm < W < 300 m ), the thickness of the two layers in the actuator design 
                                    ( 0.15 µm< t1 < 0.25 µm and 0.6 µm < t2 < 1.0 µm ), and the thickness of the panels 10 (µ m < tp < 30 µm).
                                      We use four indices to compare the multi-physical performance of the gripper, specifcally (1) the fundamental 
                                    frequency ( freq ) of the gripper, (2) input heating power (Q  ) needed to close the gripping arm, (3) maximum 
                                    crease temperature (T  ) during the gripping motion, and (4) stifness ( k ) of the gripper in resisting loads applied 
                                    to pry it open. Te origami simulation package SWOMPS is used to simulate and fnd these four performance 
                                    indices (see Supplementary Materials S2 for details).
                                      To demonstrate how interpretable machine leaning can tackle multiple multi-physical objectives, sup-
                                    pose we want to design an origami gripper to simultaneously match the following performance indices: 
                                   10 rad/s < freq < 40 rad/s , heating power Q < 0.2 W , and maximum temperature T < 200 ◦C (Target 1). We 
                                    label all data points that satisfy the performance targets to be Class 1 and label the rest of the data as Class 0. 
                                    Ten, by computing the more representative decision rules for Class 1, we obtain design rules for a functional 
                                    origami that will satisfy all three performance indices simultaneously. Figure 4b shows two design rules that 
                                    have the highest F-score for this Target 1. Interestingly, both rules have high precision and are nearly identical 
                                    except for small diferences in the selection of t1 and tp.
                                      We can use the same method to simultaneously design for all four performance indices (Target 2: frequency 
                                   10 rad/s < freq , heating power Q < 0.7 W, and maximum temperature T < 500 ◦C , and stifness 0.002 N/m < k ), 
                                    with the result presented in Fig. 4c. If we compare the computed rules for Target 2 with those for Target 1, we can 
                                    see that the machine learning method has picked another pattern afer adding in the minimum prying stifness 


        Scientifc Reports |        (2022) 12:19277  | https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-022-23875-6                                 6
Vol:.(1234567890)