    b — border path: this path lies on the border (the convex hull) of the set of nodes

    g — polygon path: this path should be part of a poly

    c — conditioned path: this path has one or more conditions applied to it

 Show polygons — display major polygons. Polygons are displayed by thick gray borders inlining
 each polygon.

 Show sub polygons — display sub polygons (reduced polygons)

 Show vertices — display all vertices as black dots.

 Show vertex indices — display the index of each vertex next to it

 Show major creases — display mountain and valley fold creases. Valley folds are shown in
 black; mountain folds are shown in dark gray.

 Show minor creases — display tri-state creases. Tristate creases are shown in light gray.

 Show crease indices — display the index of each crease
    Fit to Screen                       1F
 This menu command changes the size of the paper and the window to fill up the main screen. On
 a 17” monitor, you will get about a 7.25” square (which, incidentally, fits neatly on an 8.5×11”
 sheet of paper when it is printed).
    Set Paper SizeÉ                    1Y
 puts up the dialog shown in figure 4.5.11 to change the paper size, which is given in inches. The
 screen image is exactly the same size as the printed image.


                                       4.5.11

    Action Menu
 The commands in the Action menu perform the calculations that determine the node positions
and the locations of creases. Normally you will define a stick figure, set up conditions on the
nodes, edges, or paths, and then alternate between refining the condition set and selecting
commands from the Action menu.
   Scale Everything                    11
 Adjust the positions of all nodes and the overall scale of the model to find the position of the
 nodes that satisfies all conditions and that gives the largest possible base. The image is updated
 periodically as the calculations are performed so you can see progress. Type Command-Period to

                                  89