                            Foreleg


                                          Tail


Figure 5.5. The trail of the ant. The path of the ant might wander around on the square once
you’ve unfolded it, but there is no way that the path can be shorter on the square than the path
was on the base. Thus, the distance between two nodes on the square must be at least as large as
the distance between the two nodes measured along the edges of the tree.
This illustrates an extremely important property of any mapping from a square to a base: the
distance between any two points on the square must be greater than or equal to the distance
between the two corresponding points on the base. And in particular, this relationship must hold
for any two points on the base that correspond to nodes on the tree. Now while this condition
must hold for any pair of points on the base, it turns out that if it holds for any pair of terminal
nodes, it will hold for every pair of points on the base. That is, if you identify a set of points on
 the square corresponding to terminal nodes of a tree and the points satisfy the condition that the
 distance between any pair of points on the square is greater than or equal to the distance between
 the points as measured on the graph, then it is guaranteed that a crease pattern exists to
 transform the square into a base whose projection is the tree.

 This is a remarkable property. It tells us that no matter how complex a base is sought, no matter
 how many points it may have and how they are connected to one another, we can always find a
 crease pattern that transforms the square (or any other shape paper, for that matter) into the base.
 Putting this into mathematical language, we arrive at the fundamental theorem of the tree method
 of design (which I call the “tree theorem” for short):

    Define a simply connected tree P with terminal nodes Pi, i=1, 2,…N. Define by lij  the
   distance between nodes Pi and Pj as measured along the edges of the tree; that is, lij  is the
   sum of the lengths of all the edges between nodes Pi and Pj. Define a set of points ui in
                   ∈        ∈
   the unit square ui,x [0,1], ui,y [0,1]. Then a crease pattern exists that transforms the unit
    square into a uniaxial base whose projection is P if and only if |u i–uj|≥ lij  for every i,j.
   Furthermore, in such a base, Pi is the projection of ui for all i.


                                 116