No mark: none of the selected nodes have this condition. Selecting the command applies a
condition to each of the selected nodes.

Diamond mark: some of the selected nodes have this condition. Selecting the command applies a
condition to all of the selected nodes.

Check mark: all of the selected nodes have this condition. Selecting the command removes this
type of Condtion from each of the selected nodes.
   Node fixed to symmetry line
This command applies/removes a “Node fixed to symmetry line” condition to the selected
node(s). It is enabled if at least one node is selected. The command has the following marks and
effects:

No mark: none of the selected nodes have this condition. Selecting the command applies a
condition to each of the selected nodes.

Diamond mark: some of the selected nodes have this condition. Selecting the command applies a
condition to all of the selected nodes.

Check mark: all of the selected nodes have this condition. Selecting the command removes this
type of Condtion from each of the selected nodes.
   Nodes paired
This command applies/removes a “Nodes paired about symmetry line” condition to a selected
pair of nodes. It is enabled only if you have selected exactly two nodes. The command has the
following marks and effects:

No mark: neither of the selected nodes has this condition. Selecting the command applies a
condition binding the two nodes together.

Diamond mark: one or both of the selected nodes have this condition but not with each other.
Selecting the command removes the existing pair conditions and applies a condition binding the
two nodes together.

Check mark: the two nodes currently have this condition applied to them. Selecting the command
removes the condition.
   Nodes collinear
This command applies/removes a “Nodes Collinear” condition to a selected triplet of nodes. It is
enabled only if you have selected exactly three nodes. The command has the following marks
and effects:

No mark: none of the selected nodes has this condition. Selecting the command applies a
condition binding the three nodes together.

Diamond mark: one of the three selected nodes have this condition but they don’t form a triplet.
Selecting the command removes the existing triplet conditions and applies a condition binding
the three nodes together.


                                108