            5.0 The Tree Method of Origami Design

 This section describes the mathematical ideas that underly the tree method of origami design —
 and technical origami, or origami sekkei — in particular. The Japanese art of origami, though
centuries old, has undergone a renaissance in the last few decades from new advances in origami
design. The simple stylized birds, flowers, and fish of old have been replaced by incredibly
complex replicas of insects, crustacea, mammals, amphibians, dinosaurs, humans, objects, and
just about everything under the sun. The explosion of subject matter was driven in part by new
discoveries in design techniques. One of the most significant of these discoveries was a series of
mathematical algorithms for designing origami bases in terms of the number, size, and
arrangement of their points. This document section some of those algorithms.

Even before mathematics came into the picture, the concept of “points” — flaps that become
appendages of an origami model — and their number, length, and connections have figured
heavily in the origami designer’s approach to creating new folds. Over the past few years, I and
several folders have been formulating mathematical techniques for designing origami models on
the basis of their points. We have discovered several general algorithms for design, algorithms
that enable one to compute the crease pattern for a base containing any number of points of
arbitrary complexity. A complete description of such algorithms and all of their nuances would
fill a book — in fact, I am working on that very task — but the basic technique can be quickly
outlined and may be of interest to folders interested in exploring new bases and symmetries.

I am going to describe an algorithm using terminology and concepts that I developed in my own
research. However, I should acknowledge major contributions from other mathematical folders.
In any scientific endeavor, the rate of progress is vastly accelerated through the interaction and
cross-fertilization of ideas among several investigators and those who have contributed to this
theory are many: they include Jun Maekawa, Fumiaki Kawahata, Toshiyuki Meguro, Alex
Bateman and Tom Hull, with additional insights from John Montroll, Peter Engel, Issei Yoshino,
Brian Ewins, Jeremy Shafer, and Martin and Erik Demaine. My thanks and acknowledgment to
these, as well as the many more folders whose works formed both inspiration and guide for my
work over the years.

And now, on with design.

The name “technical folding” has come to be applied to origami designs that, whether
intentionally or not, display a strong geometrical elegance and sophistication. The target concept
for much of technical folding is the base. A base is simply a geometric shape that resembles the
subject to be folded — usually, a shape having the same number and length of flaps as the
subject has appendages. For example, a base for a bird might have four flaps, corresponding to a
head, tail, and two wings. A slightly more complicated subject such as a lizard would require a
base with six flaps, corresponding to the head, four legs, and a tail. And an extremely
complicated subject such as a flying horned beetle might have six legs, four wings, three horns,
two antennae and an abdomen, requiring a base with sixteen flaps. You needn’t stop there, either.
Throw in mouthparts and a separate flap for the thorax, if you like, for a total of nineteen flaps.
The number of flaps required in a model depends on the level of anatomical accuracy desired by
the designer. Historically, much origami design was performed by trial and error — manipulating
a piece of paper until it began to resemble something recognizable. However, for a complex
subject, trial and error is a highly inefficient approach, since one is unlikely to stumble upon a

                                 112