 nineteen-pointed base with flaps of the right size in the right places purely by luck. For such
 models, a more directed approach is called for.

 For a given number and distribution of flaps, there are always many possible bases that can be
 folded that differ in various ways: the overall size of the base, which flaps have how many
 layers, how the flaps are positioned in the plane of the paper, the stacking order of the layers, and
 so forth. I doubt that there is a universal algorithm that could come up with every possible base
 for a given subject; at any rate, most folders would be satisfied with an algorithm that could at
 least come up with one. It turns out that such an algorithm exists for a particular class of base.
 We will consider bases that have a special property: their flaps and layers can be arranged such
 that (1) one edge of every flap lies in a common plane and (2) when the edges all lie in a plane,
 all of the layers of the base are perpendicular to the plane. I call this type of base a uniaxial base
 (because when the base is flattened, all of the flaps lie along a single common axis). An example
 of a hypothetical uniaxial base for a hypothetical four-legged (and hence six-flapped) creature is
 shown in figure 5.1.

                            Head       Foreleg

                       Foreleg

                                                   Hind leg

                                                     Tail
                                Hind leg


Figure 5.1. Schematic of a uniaxial base for an animal with four legs, a head, body, and tail. It’s
a uniaxial base if it can be manipulated so that all of the flaps lie in a plane and all of the layers
are perpendicular to the plane. The shadow of the base consists entirely of lines.
While a great many origami bases can be represented as uniaxial bases including the four classic
bases — the kite, fish, bird, and frog bases — many others cannot. For example, John Montroll’s
Dog Base and its derivatives do not fall into this category. But there are many bases that do, and
most importantly from the standpoint of design, for a great many subjects, a uniaxial base is a
sufficiently good approximation of the subject that you can easily transform it into a very
accurate and detailed replica of the subject.

We can represent any uniaxial base by the stick figure formed by the projection of the base into
the plane, i.e., the shadow cast by the base if illuminated from above. This stick figure has the
same number and length sticks as the base has flaps, and therefore it is a convenient abstraction
of the base, even as the base is an abstraction of the subject which we are trying to fold. The
problem to be solved is: for a given stick figure, can one find a way of folding a square into a
base whose projection is that stick figure?

Let’s first define some terms describing this stick figure. The mathematical term for a stick figure
is a graph. I’ll call the particular stick figure for a uniaxial base the graph of the uniaxial base.

                                 113