are those for which (1) the four nodes are distinct, and (2) both signs of dm  are represented

among the four equations. In addition, solutions for dm that are negative or greater than the
       e
length of ab  are non-physical and must be discarded.

Note that for these equations to be used as written above, there can be no unrelieved strain in the
system. They can clearly be modified to include strain.

   6.8  Universal Molecule

The universal molecule is a crease pattern that is constructed by a series of repeated reductions of
polygons. The construction is carried out by insetting the polygons and constructing reduced
paths and fracturing the resulting network into still smaller polygons of lower order. As with
triangulation, the process is guaranteed to terminate.

We use the same polygon definitions as were used in the description of Meguro stubs. In
addition:

                  ∈  Q
Assume the nodes ui U  are ordered by their index, i.e., the N-sided polygon contains the

indices u1 , u2 ,… uN , order as you travel clockwise around the polygon. Construct the following:
α                                                    ς ≡   α
 i  is half of the interior angle at node ui . We define the quantity i cot i .
                                                  °        o      =    −
Define R90  as the operator that rotates a vector clockwise by 90 , i.e.,  R 90 (ux ,uy ) (uy , ux )

                                                  u
Define N as the operator that normalizes a vector, i.e., N o u =
                                                  u

ri  is the scaled bisector of the angle formed at ui , pointing toward the interior of the polygon
                α                      ς
with magnitude csc i . The vector ri  as well as i  can be constructed according to the following
prescription:

                              ′ ≡  o    −
                             r   N  (ri−1 ri )
                              ′′ ≡ o    −
                             r    N (r i +1 r i )
                              ′′′ ≡ o   o  ′′ − ′
                             r    N  R90 (r  r )
                                     r′′′
                             r =
                              i   ′′′ ⋅[]o ′′′
                                 r   R90 r
                             ς=⋅′
                               irir
The inset distance h is the largest value such that

(1) for every path pij  of length lij  between non-adjacent nodes ui  and u j ,

                      ()+     2++2≤−              ς + ς
                      ux  hrx   ()uyhry    ml[]ij h()i j


                                149