Check mark: the three nodes currently have this condition applied to them. Selecting the
command removes the condition.
   Remove selected Node conditions
This command removes all conditions that apply specifically to this node. It does not affect Edge
conditions or path conditions.
   Remove all Node conditions
This command removes all conditions that apply to all nodes. It does not affect edge conditions
or path conditions.
   Edge length fixed
This command applies/removes a “Edge length fixed” condition to the selected edge(s). It is
enabled if at least one edge is selected. The command has the following marks and effects:

No mark: none of the selected edges have this condition. Selecting the command applies a
condition to each of the selected edges.

Diamond mark: some of the selected edges have this condition. Selecting the command applies a
condition to all of the selected edges.

Check mark: all of the selected edges have this condition. Selecting the command removes this
type of Condtion from each of the selected edges.
   Edges same strain
This command applies/removes a “Edges same strain” condition to a selected pair of edges. It is
enabled only if you have selected exactly two edges . The command has the following marks and
effects:

No mark: neither of the selected edges has this condition. Selecting the command applies a
condition binding the two edges together.

Diamond mark: one or both of the selected edges have this condition but not with each other.
Selecting the command removes the existing pair conditions and applies a condition binding the
two edges together.

Check mark: the two edges currently have this condition applied to them. Selecting the command
removes the condition.
   Remove selected Edge conditions
This command removes all conditions that apply specifically to this edge. It does not affect node
conditions or path conditions.
   Remove all Edge conditions
This command removes all conditions that apply to all edges. It does not affect node conditions
or path conditions.


                                109