 nodes on the square becomes an edge of the base that lies in the plane of projection.
 Consequently, we have another important result:

    All active paths between terminal nodes map to an edge of the base in the plane of
    projection of the base.
 Active paths on the square lie in the plane of projection of the square, but the plane of projection
 is where the vertical layers of paper in the base meet each other. Thus, active paths are not only
 edges of the base: they are major creases of the base.

 So now we have the rudiments of the crease pattern for the base. We know the points on the
 square that correspond to terminal nodes of the tree become the tips of the flaps of the base, and
 we know that active paths on the square become major creases of the base. Furthermore, they are
 creases that lie in the plane of projection of the base. In many cases, this information alone is
 enough to find the complete crease pattern for the uniaxial base that corresponds to the tree. In
 many cases, though, it isn’t. So we’ll keep going.

 If you draw all of the active paths on a square, you get a network of lines, each of which is a
 major crease of the base. Figure 6 includes the active paths for the node pattern for the six-legged
 animal, labeled with their length. Each of those lines will turn out to be a crease in the base.

 Since the active paths map one-to-one to paths on the tree, any features on the tree can be
 mapped directly onto the active paths. Specifically, we can locate where on an active path each
 internal node falls. If our hypothetical ant travels from one terminal node to another encountering
 internal nodes at distances d1, d2, d3, and so forth along the way, then when we draw the crease
 pattern, we can identify each internal node along the active path connecting the nodes at the same
 distances from the terminal nodes. Thus, we can add all of the internal nodes to our budding
 crease pattern. In figure 5.7, I’ve identified all of the nodes, terminal and internal, by a letter on
 the tree, and have added their locations to the active paths in the crease pattern on the square.
 Note that in general, an internal node will show up on more than one active path.

                                      EF
                      A
                                            BB
                                                  A
               EF

                       BBB

                                          CC
                       C

               GH
                                     GH
                                            CC
                      D
                                                  D

Figure 5.7. (Left). Tree with all nodes lettered. (Right) Crease pattern with terminal nodes,
internal nodes, and active paths.


                                 118