Let this calculation run until the cursor
turns back into an arrow and things stop
moving around. You should see a pattern
something like figure 2.1.7. (Your
example might look like figure 2.1.7
turned upside-down; if it does, don’t
worry about it.)

There is a lot of information in this
figure, so let me spend a few minutes
describing what we’re seeing. Note that
the circles surrounding each terminal
node have expanded and moved so that
several are touching. Several black lines
have appeared that connect terminal
nodes and they have dots and numbers
along them. And the stick figure has been
distorted (because the terminal nodes
have moved) and has changed to a
slightly lighter blue. Also, the number
labeled “Scale” at the top of the window
has changed from 0.10000 to 0.26695.                   2.1.7
Here’s what this all means. The circles
represent the paper used by flaps that correspond to terminal nodes. The black lines between
them are valley folds (most of the time) in the base. They are called active paths (for reasons that
will come later). The dots and numbers along the active paths are the locations of the internal
nodes (non-terminal nodes) along the active paths.

The stick figure has been distorted, which is because each of the terminal nodes of the stick
figure is now located in its actual location on the square. That is, when you fold the base, the tip
of the head flap will come from the point on the paper where the terminal node that corresponds
to the head is located.

What Optimize Scale actually does is to move around the terminal nodes to try to find an
arrangement that gives the largest possible base, subject to the proviso that all of the edges
maintain the same lengths relative to each other. Although all of the edges are enlarged by the
same amount, at the optimum configuration, at least some of the edges cannot be enlarged any
more. Such edges are called “pinned” edges are are indicated by turning a lighter blue. In this
optimization, all of the edges have turned light blue, which is an indication that no edge can be
made any longer. In general, after you have run the Optimize Scale command, all or nearly all of
the edges will be in this state.

Most of these lines, numbers, and circles are here for illustrative purposes and you will learn later
how to turn on and off their display. The black lines, however, are actual creases in the base; they
are (usually) valley folds. Bases are built in two stages. First, you Optimize Scale, which
 identifies the valley folds of the crease pattern that form a network of polygons. This defines the
 overall structure of the base. Then, you fill in the polygons with the remaining creases and you
 have several options at this point.


                                  12