 Although the proof of the tree theorem is beyond the scope of this article1, we won’t let that stop
 us from using it. The tree theorem tells us that if we can find a distribution of nodes on a square
 for which the distance between any two nodes is greater than or equal to the distance between the
 nodes on the tree, then a crease pattern exists that can transform that node pattern into a base. For
 a given tree, there are often several possible node patterns that satisfy the tree theorem, each of
 which yields a different base. For our six-pointed base, a little doodling with pen and paper will
 reveal that the pattern of nodes shown in figure 5.6 fits inside of a square of side
 2√((121+8√179)/65) ≈ 3.7460.

                         Foreleg                 Foreleg

                                 2    Head    2


                                 3            3


                     Hind leg                       Hind leg
                                 2            2

                                      Tail

Figure 5.6. Node pattern that satisfies the tree theorem for the six-legged tree.
The tree theorem is an existence theorem; it says that a crease pattern exists but it doesn’t tell us
what this supposed crease pattern actually is. However, it does provide a strong clue. The tree
 theorem says that the points on the square that correspond to terminal nodes of the tree become
 the tips of the flaps on the folded base. Are there any other parts of the square that we can
 identify on the base?

 Consider the inequality in the tree theorem. Two points corresponding to terminal nodes must be
 separated on the square by a distance greater than or equal to the distance between them on the
 tree. In the special case where equality holds, we can uniquely identify the line between the two
 points. We will call a line on the square that runs between any two terminal nodes a path. Every
 path has a minimum length, which is the sum of the edges of the tree between the terminal
 nodes that define the path. (In the symbolism of the tree theorem, lij  is the minimum length of
 path ij.) The actual length of a path is given by the distance between the terminal nodes as
 measured upon the square (|ui–uj| in the tree theorem). Any path for which its actual length is
equal to its minimum length is called an active path.

On the base, the only route between two flap tips that is equal to the distance between the
terminal nodes lies in the plane of the projection. Thus, any active path between two terminal


1For a proof of the tree theorem, see “A Computational Algorithms for Origami Design,” 12th Annual Symposium
on Computational Geometry, May 22–26, 1996, Philadelphia, PA.

                                 117