 Now, there is conceivably an infinite number of polygons and a polygon can have any number of
 sides, so we’re not out of the woods yet. We need to find a way to collapse an arbitrary polygon
 into its corresponding subbase. Let’s look at a few simple cases.

 We’ll start with triangles. A triangle has three sides and three corners. Recall that the corners of
 active polygons are terminal nodes. Thus, the tree of a triangle must be a tree with three terminal
 nodes and vice-versa. There is only one graph with three terminal nodes, which is shown in
 figure 5.9. This tree corresponds to a uniaxial base with three flaps, whose lengths I have dubbed
 a, b, and c.

                       A                                  A

                                                       a      a
                       a
                                                   D
                                                                 D
                     D
                                               b
              b             c                                       c

       B
                                 C       B                              C
                                                  bcD

Figure 5.9. (Left) The tree with three terminal nodes, corresponding to a subbase with flaps of
length a, b, and c. (Right) The corresponding triangle polygon.
Now, one of the assumptions we’ve made is that the sides of the active polygons are active paths.
For a triangle whose three sides are active paths, that means we already know the lengths of the
sides: they are, respectively, (a+b), (b+c), and (c+a). A triangle is uniquely specified by its
sides, so if we are given the tree we know what the triangle is and vice versa. Given a triangle
with sides defined above, is there a crease pattern that collapses this triangle into a subbase with
flaps of the appropriate length?

There is such a crease pattern and it is one familiar to every paper folder: the humble rabbit ear.
It’s been known since Euclid that the three bisectors of a triangle intersect at a point, which
enables one to form a rabbit ear from any triangle with all of the edges lying in the same plane
(or if you flatten the rabbit ear, the edges all lie on a line). One can also show the converse; if
three sides of a triangle are (a+b), (b+c), and (c+a), then the length of the flaps of the resulting
rabbit ear are a, b, and c. So any triangle bounded by three active paths can be filled in with the
 creases of a rabbit ear, as shown in figure 5.10.


                                 121