If exactly one node is selected and you
click somewhere else, a new node will be
placed at the click location with a line
connecting the nodes. The line between
the two nodes is called an edge. We’ll do
this now. Make sure the node is selected
(click once on it so that it is highlighted)
and then click once above the node; you
have now created an edge connecting the
two nodes. Note that the new node is
now selected (highlighted), as is the
edge, as shown in figure 2.1.2.

The edge displays two numbers near its
midpoint: the index, which serves to
identify the edge, and another number
below it, which is the desired length of
the edge. The length of the edge is the
same as the length of the corresponding
flap on the base.
                                                       2.1.2
   • Note: all lengths on the tree are
   defined relative to each other, not
   relative to the size of the square.

All edges start out with a length of 1.000 by default; later you’ll learn how to change the length
of an edge. Note too that the displayed length of the edge doesn’t change when you drag nodes
and edges around; the displayed length is not the actual length of the drawn line; it’s the desired
length of the corresponding flap.

Note that each node has a circle around it. That’s because they are terminal nodes. Terminal
nodes are nodes that have only one edge attached to them, and they correspond to the tips of
flaps of the base.

As mentioned earlier, if you click on an existing node, it becomes selected. If you hold down the
mouse button after clicking you can drag the node around on the square. If exactly one node is
already selected and you click elsewhere in the square, you create a new node at the click
location and create a new edge connected to the selected node. (If zero or two or more nodes are
selected and you click elsewhere, everything gets deselected.) You can also click on edges and
drag them; dragging an edge drags the nodes at each end. You can extended the selected (select
more than one node or edge at a time) by holding down the shift key when you click on nodes or
edges. The collection of selected nodes and edges is called the selection.

The following are all the things you do with clicks:

• Click on a node or edge to select it and deselect everything else

• Shift-click on a deselected node or edge to add it to the selection

• Shift-click on a selected node or edge to remove it from the selection

                                   8