At this point, you are seeing several
different sets of information overlaid on
one another. The tree (shades of blue)
displays the abstract structure of the tree.
The gray polygons display the underlying
structure of the crease pattern. The crease
lines display the creases themselves.
Because the creases are overlaid on top
of everything else, the display gets rather
busy when all of the creases are present.
You can choose to display just the
creases by choosing the Show Creases
Only command from the  View menu,
 getting the result shown in figure 2.1.10.

 Finally, we have the crease pattern for
 the base — the thing we were looking for
 all along. In general, the black lines are
 valley folds, the medium gray lines are
 mountain folds, and the light gray folds
 can be either; but there are a few                   2.1.10
 exceptions. The bottom corners of the
 square aren’t used for anything, so you
 would probably mountain-fold them underneath, rather than valley-folding them upward. A
 major exception is the following. Around a middle point, the creases alternate around the point as
 mountain, valley, mountain, valley… and one of the valleys needs to be turned into a mountain
 fold to satisfy the Kawasaki theorem M=V±2. Since there are, in general, multiple valleys that
 could be turned into mountains, I don’t make that choice for you. The light gray creases can be
 either mountain, valley, or unfolded, depending upon which way you direct the flaps when you
 flatten the model. These folds are, using the terminology of tree theory, tristate creases. So you
 will still need to add a few creases when you try to collapse the crease pattern into a base, but it
 should be pretty obvious where the additional creases go.

 There are two ways to get the crease pattern from the screen onto a piece of paper. First, you can
 simply print it using the Print command in the File menu. Second, at any time you can copy the
 contents of the window to the Clipboard using the Copy command in the Edit menu. You can
 then paste the image of the crease pattern into your favorite drawing program for further touch-
 up and subsequent printout. In either case, if you print out the crease pattern and fold it up, you
 will arrive at the base shown in figure 2.1.11 (which also shows which creases are mountain and
 valley folds using the conventional line patterns). As promised, its flaps have the same number,
 connections, and relative size as the original stick figure.


                                  14