  Copyright ©1994–1998 by
  Robert J. Lang. All rights
  reserved. Portions (CFSQP)
  Copyright ©1993-1998 by Craig
  T. Lawrence, Jian L. Zhou, and
  Andre L. Tits. Use and
  distribution of this program is
  subject to restrictions described
  in the TreeMaker documentation.
                                                      A Program for Origami Design
  Thanks for suggestions and
  algorithmic insight to:
  Alex Bateman, Toshiyuki
  Meguro, Tom Hull, Jun
  Maekawa, Fumiaki Kawahata,
  Erik Demaine, Barry Hayes, and
  Marshall Bern.
  Programmed with Metrowerks
  CodeWarrior ™ and Metrowerks
  PowerPlant™.


                   Copyright ©1994–1998 by Robert J. Lang. All rights reserved.
  Portions (CFSQP) copyright @1993–1998 by Craig T. Lawrence, Jian L. Zhou, and Andre L. Tits. All
                                      Rights Reserved.
                                      Terms of License
TreeMaker contains copyrighted code (CFSQP) that may only be used for non-profit purposes. TreeMaker
may not be freely distributed.
CFSQP's Conditions for External Use include the following
1. The CFSQP routines may not be distributed to third parties. Interested parties should contact the authors
directly.
2. Due acknowledgment must be made of the use of the CFSQP routines in research reports or publications.
Whenever such reports are released for public access, a copy should be forwarded to the authors of CFSQP.
3. The CFSQP routines may only be used for research and development, unless it has been agreed
otherwise with the authors in writing.
For more information on CFSQP, see http://www.isr.umd.edu/Labs/CACSE/FSQP/fsqp.html
      To obtain a copy of the TreeMaker executable, please provide the following information:
                                        Your name
                        Your affiliation (must be a non-profit organization)
                                     Your e-mail address
             An affirmation that you will abide by CFSQP’s Conditions for External Use.
 An affirmation that you will only be using TreeMaker for non-profit purposes and will not redistribute the
                                         executable
         Confirmation that you are using a Macintosh™ computer (it won't run on anything else)
                                   sent to: treemaker@langorigami.com
A copy of the executable will be emailed to you within a few weeks.
If you like the program, drop me a line with your comments and attaboys. If you find bugs, drop me a line
with a description and I’ll try to fix it in the next version. This software is provided as-is with no implied
warranties of fitness or usability (but I hope you will find it to be be both fit and usable).


                                       1