Figure 5.25. (Left) Two corners are inset to the same point, which is the intersection of the angle
bisectors. (Right) Two nonadjacent corners inset to the point where the reduced path between the
inset corners becomes active.
As I said, one or the other or both of these situations must apply; it is possible that path
corresponding to both adjacent and nonadjacent corners have become active simultaneously or
for multiple reduced paths to become active for the same value of h (this happens surprisingly
often). In either case, the reduced polygon can be simplified, thus reducing the complexity of the
problem.

In a reduced polygon, if two or more adjacent corners have coalesced into a single point, then the
reduced polygon has fewer sides (and paths) than the original active polygon. And if a path
between nonadjacent corners has become active, then the reduced polygon can be split into
separate polygons along the active reduced paths, each with fewer sides than the original polygon
had (just as in the polygon network, an active path across an active polygon splits it into two
smaller polygons). (In the gusset quad, for example, the reduced quad is inset until one of its
diagonals becomes an active path; the reduced quad is then split along the diagonal into two
triangles.) In either situation, you are left with one or more polygons that have fewer sides than
the original. The process of insetting and subdivision is then applied to each of the interior
polygons anew, and the process repeated as necessary.

If a polygon (active or reduced) has three sides, then there are no nonadjacent reduced paths. The
three bisectors intersect at a point, and the polygon’s reduced polygon evaporates to a point,
leaving a rabbit ear molecule behind composed of the bisectors.

Four-sided polygons can have the four corners inset to a single point or to a line, in which case
no further insetting is required, or to one or two triangles, which are then inset to a point. Higher-
order polygons are subdivided into lower-order ones in direct analogy.

Since each stage of the process absolutely reduces the number of sides of the reduced polygons
created (although possibly at the expense of creating more of them), the process must necessarily
terminate. Since each polygon (a) can fold flat, and (b) satisfies the tree theorem, then the entire
collection of nested polygons must also satisfy the tree condition. Consequently, any active
polygon that satisfies the tree theorem — no matter how many sides — can be filled with a
crease pattern using the procedure outlined above and collapsed into a base on the resulting
creases.

So what are the creases of the universal molecule? Each polygon is divided into two parts: the
core is the reduced polygon (which may be crossed by active reduced paths); the border around
the core is the ring. The angle bisectors that cross the ring are mountain folds. Internal nodes
along active paths propagate inward across the ring forming tri-state folds. Active reduced paths
that cross the core are valley folds. The boundary of reduced polygons can also be tri-state folds,
as one may or may not fold layers along them. The same assignment of crease applies to each
level of the recursive universal molecule construction.

A remarkable feature of the universal molecule is that many of the molecular crease patterns that
have been previously enumerated are just special cases of it, including the rabbit ear molecule,
the gusset quad, and both Maekawa and Meguro quads. Figures 5.26 and 5.27 illustrates these
special cases.


                                134