 If the triangle has two sides that aren’t active paths, a similar modification will still collapse it
 appropriately.

 Another case that we should consider is a triangle graph that has one or more internal nodes
 along its edges, which may or may not be due to a kink in the subgraph. For example, the two
 side subgraphs in figure 5.8 each have three terminal nodes, but in each graph, one of the edges
 has an internal node because the subgraph has a kink at that point. We can still use the rabbit ear
 construction to find most of the creases, but wherever we have an internal node along an active
 path, we need a crease radiating inward from the internal node to the mountain fold that forms
 the “spine” of the subbase.

 We might wonder which creases are valley and mountain folds. All of the creases that form the
 spine of the subbase are always mountain folds. Most of the creases corresponding to active
 paths are valley folds; however, for terminal nodes that fall in the interior of the paper, there is a
 mathematical requirement that the number of mountain and valley folds that come together at a
 point differ by 2; consequently, for any terminal node that lies in the interior of the square, one of
 the active paths must be converted to a mountain fold.

 The other type of creases we will encounter are those creases that radiate inward from internal
 nodes; they can be mountain folds, valley folds, or no folds at all, depending on which way we
 lay the flaps when we flatten the uniaxial base. Since any such fold has three possible states, I
 call them tri-state folds. To give some indication which way the folds go, I’ll draw all of the
 active paths as valley folds (even though a few of them may actually turn out to be mountain
 folds) and draw all of the tri-state folds as x-ray lines (since they can go either way).

 Using the rabbit-ear crease pattern, we can fill in three of the four active polygons of the six-
 legged base as shown in figure 5.12. Using similar patterns, we can fill in the crease patterns for
 any triangle in any network of active polygons. Let us now turn out attention to the next case:
 four-sided active polygons.

                           EF
                                BB
                                       A

                                   BB

                               CC

                          GH
                                 CC

                                       D

Figure 5.12. Crease pattern for the six-legged base with triangles filled in.
Just as a triangular polygon corresponded to a tree with three terminal nodes, a four-sided
polygon, or quadrilateral, has a tree with four terminal nodes. There are two distinct types of
trees with four terminal nodes, shown in figure 5.13. I call these two graphs the “4-star” and the

                                 123