    6.2  Definitions and Notation

                                             ∈ n        n
 Define U to be the set of all node coordinates ui, i I , where I  is a set of node indices:
  n =
 I  {1. . n n } . Each node ui has coordinate variables ui,x and ui,y.

                                 ∈ e        e                     e =
 Define E to be the set of all edges ei , i I , where I  is a set of edge indices I {1. . n e } . Each
                               ∈                                    σ
 edge contains exactly two nodes ni ,nj ek . Each edge ei  has a length li  and a strain i .

 Define U t to be the set of terminal nodes, which are those nodes connected to exactly one edge.
Define I tn  to be the set of terminal node indices. Clearly, U t ⊆ U  and I tn ⊆ I n .

                                  ∈  n  ≠
Define P to be the set of all paths, pij , i, j I , i j . Each path is identified by the indices of the

nodes at each end of the path. Each path has a length, lij , which is given by the sum of the
 strained lengths of the edges in the path; that is,

                                  ≡      + σ
                                 lij ∑(1    k )lk
                                     ∈
                                    e k pij

        t
 Define P  to be the set of terminal paths, which are those paths that connect two terminal nodes

 Define m to be the overall scale of the tree.

 Define w, h to be the width and height of the paper. The paper is a rectangle whose lower left
 corner is the origin (0,0) and whose upper right corner is the point (w,h).

   6.3   Scale Optimization

The most basic optimization is the optimization of the positions of all terminal nodes and the
scale of the design. This is equivalent to solving the problem

                 {}∈     t
minimize (–m) over m,ui U   s.t.

     ≤    ≤          ∈  t
(1) 0  ui, x w  for all ui U

     ≤    ≤          ∈  t
 (2) 0 ui, y h for all ui U

        []+ σ    −      −    2+−2≤                  ∈  t
 (3) m ∑ (1  k )lk  ()ui,x uj,x ()ui,yuj,y0 for all pij , P
      ∈
     ekpij

    6.4  Edge Optimization

 Edge optimization is used to selectively lengthen points by the same relative amount to “fill out”
 a crease pattern. The scale m is fixed, and a subset of the the edges Es is subjected to the same
variable strain s. A subset of the terminal nodes U s  is allowed to move. The edge optimizer
 solves the problem:

                                 144