 “sawhorse.” If a, b, c, and d are the lengths of the four terminal edges in either graph and e is the
length of the “body” in the sawhorse, then a quadrilateral whose sides are all active paths will
have sides of length (a+b), (b+c), (c+d), and (d+a) for the 4-star and (a+b), (b+c+e), (c+d), and
(d+a+e) for the sawhorse. There is an ambiguity associated with quadrilateral polygons; with the
triangle, if we are given the lengths of the three sides, then the lengths of the edges of the tree are
uniquely determined but with a quadrilateral, knowledge of just the lengths of the sides is
insufficient to fully specify the dimensions of the tree. We must have the full tree to know
whether the graph is a 4-star or a sawhorse and in the latter case, to know the length of the body.

                       a        d           a            d

                                                  e
                      bc                   b             c

 Figure 5.13. The two trees with four terminal nodes. (Left) The 4-star. (Right) The sawhorse.
 Finding crease patterns for quadrilaterals is more complex than finding patterns triangles because
 there is more than one crease pattern that will collapse a given quadrilateral into the appropriate
 subbase. In fact, there can be infinitely many different crease patterns for a given quad. However,
 there is one pattern that has the desirable property that it works for quadrilaterals corresponding
 to either type of tree. I call it “the gusset quad” crease pattern because it usually has a gusset
 across its top. Its construction is rather complex, but I will describe it briefly here.

 Given a quadrilateral ABCD as shown in figure 5.14. Inscribe a smaller quadrilateral inside
whose sides are parallel to the sides of the original quadrilateral but are shifted inward a distance
h (the value of h is not yet determined). Denote the corners of the new quadrilateral by A′, B′, C′,
and D′. Drop perpendiculars from these four corners to the sides of the original quadrilateral.
                                                  ′
Label their points of intersection AAB where the line from A  hits side AB, BAB where the line
 from B′ hits AB, and so forth.

                                           CCD       C
                              D
                         D     CD

                                                       CBC
                     D
                      DA                       ′
                                D′            C

                  A
                   DA                                      BBC
                             ′
                            A                     B′

                                          h

               A                                                B
                            AAB                 BAB


                                 124