This is rather surprising; the node pattern
is less symmetric than the tree from
which it is derived. The tree has bilateral
symmetry — that is, the left side is the
mirror image of the right side. However,
the node pattern does not have bilateral
symmetry. We’ll see this in the crease
pattern as well. Select Build Polygons
from the  Action menu; then Build
Creases from the Action menu. Then
convert to Creases Only view from the
View menu. You will see that the
resulting crease pattern has no line of
symmetry at all (figure 2.2.3.)

This is an example of a phenomenon
called “spontaneous symmetry-
breaking,” in which a system that is
fundamentally symmetric at high energy
settles into an asymmetric state at lower
energy. (In the analogy, a larger scaling              2.2.3
factor corresponds to a lower energy.) In
this case, a slightly larger base is
obtained for an asymmetric distribution of nodes than is obtained for a symmetric distribution of
nodes. While symmetry-breaking is a wonderful phenomenon for generating Ph.D. theses, it can
be very undesirable in origami design. The crease pattern in figure 2.2.3 can indeed be folded
into the tree we started with and left and right flaps will have the same lengths, but they will have
different widths and different distributions of layers, so the base will not have mirror symmetry.

An asymmetric base is not necessarily a bad thing. It depends on the position of the subject. If
you were making a running human, for example, in which the left and right arms and legs were
in different positions, it might not matter if paired flaps had different numbers of layers. But in a
lot of models, it does matter, and in this case at least, we would like the folded base and therefore
the underlying crease pattern to have the same bilateral mirror-symmetry as the subject.

Fortunately, TreeMaker offers us this option. The first thing to do is to define a line of the
symmetry for the square. This need provides us with the opportunity to meet the Tree Editor
dialog, which lets us change settings that affect the entire structure. Select Edit Tree… from the
Edit menu, which brings up the dialog shown in figure 2.2.4.


                                      2.2.4


                                  17