    Edit treeÉ                          1J
 Puts up the Tree Editor, which lets you alter attributes of the overall pattern, as shown in figure
 4.5.3.


                                       4.5.3

The fields of the Tree Editor are:

Paper width — gives the width of the paper in dimensionless units. This value is normally set to
1, no matter how big the screen or printout is. To change the actual size of the screen (or printed)
image, select Set Paper Size… in the View menu.

Paper height — gives the height of the paper in dimensionless units. This value is normally set
to 1 for a square but you can change it to other values if you like. To work out designs on a
rectangle, you can change either the width or height to a different value. (You can, if you like,
change both to a different value, but it won’t make any difference.)

Scale — this sets the relationship between the units of the tree (edge lengths) and the
dimensionless size of the square. This quantity is determined when you invoke the Optimize
Scale command. You will ordinarily not change this number, but if you are creating a very
complicated tree, you might want to set it to a very small number to keep from cluttering up the
screen with a lot of circles.

Symmetry — on = define a line of symmetry. The line is defined by a point on the line and an
angle. Two common lines of symmetry are the point (0.5, 0.5) and angle 45° (for a diagonal
model) and the point (0.5, 0.5) and angle 90° (for a book-folded model). The two buttons
immediately below the check box are preset for these values.

diag — preset button for diagonal symmetry

book — preset button for book-fold symmetry

x = ___ — the x-coordinate of a point on the line of symmetry.

y = ___ — the y-coordinate of a point on the line of symmetry.

angle = ___ — the angle (in degrees) of the line of symmetry.

Clicking on the disclosure triangle toggles to Expert Mode, which displays additional structural
information about the Tree as shown in figure 4.5.4.


                                  82