    PrintÉ                             1P
 Print the current tree. The printout is exactly the same size as what’s on the screen and the same
 elements will be shown as are displayed. If you are in Default View, you’ll see all the nodes,
edges, circles, and so forth; if you are in Creases Only View, then you’ll print just the crease
pattern.

If the image is too large to fit on a single sheet, it will be tiled on multiple pages with crop marks
at the joints. There will be a header on each page consisting of the name of the file on the left and
the current scale on the right.
   Print OneÉ
 Print a single page.
    Quit                               1Q
 Quit the program.

    Edit Menu
    Undo                               1Z
 Undo is currently not supported except for text entries in dialogs. The structure of an origami
 design has many complex interrelationships between parts; if you do something as simple as
 moving a node, many data structures are created, destroyed, and re-connected. Implementation of
 Undo would be difficult.

 The next four commands are the standard Macintosh editing commands that behave normally for
 text in dialog boxes.
    Cut                                1X
 In a text field, Cut cuts the current selection to the Clipboard. In the main window, Cut delete
 the current selection of nodes or edges.
    Copy                               1C
 In a text field, copy the current selection to the Clipboard. In the main window, copy the contents
 of the window to the Clipboard as a picture (PICT) with embedded Postscript commands for line
 weight and polygon formation. You can paste the crease pattern into another drawing program to
 touch it up, change line weights or styles, or color it in. Many of the images in this document, for
 example, were generated by Copying the image of the main window to the Clipboard and pasting
 them into the document.
    Paste                              1V
 In a text field, past the contents of the Clipboard into the field. This command does nothing in
 the main window.
    Clear
 In a text field, delete the current selection. In the main window, delete the current selection of
 nodes or edges.


                                  80