 This dialog gives information about the entire structure. It shows us the shape of the paper; the
 default paper is a square whose width and height are both 1 unit, but you can also design for
 rectangles by changing either the width or height. (But with TreeMaker’s capabilities for design,
 why would you ever want to use anything but a square?) The third number is the scale, which is
 the ratio between one unit on the tree and the size of the paper. (This is the same number that
 appears at the top of the window.) In this example, we see that the scale is 0.277, which means
 that a 1-unit edge on the tree will turn into a flap whose length is 0.277 times the side of the
 square from which it is folded.

    • Note: when we select the command Optimize Scale, TreeMaker tries to make the scale as
   large as possible.

The controls and fields on the right are the ones that interest us. The “Symmetry” check box lets
us define a line of symmetry on the square. A line of symmetry is defined by the x and y
coordinates of any point on the symmetry line and by the angle of the symmetry line with respect
to the paper. A square has two natural lines of symmetry, that is, two different ways of dividing it
into mirror-symmetric halves. If you crease the square along the diagonal, you get two mirror-
symmetric triangles and the diagonal is the line of symmetry. If you book-fold the square, you
get two mirror-symmetric rectangles and the book fold is the line of symmetry. The two buttons
named “diag” and “book” are presets for these two symmetries. Click on the “book” button.
You’ll see that the “Symmetry” check box is turned on, and we now have values entered for x, y,
and the angle of the symmetry line as shown in figure 2.2.5.


                                      2.2.5

 Click “OK” to make the dialog box go away.

    • Note: you can, if you like, enter your own values to either offset the line of symmetry
    from the center of the paper or to create a line of symmetry for a rectangle.


                                  18