                  TreeMaker 4.0

                      Copyright ©1994–1998 by Robert J. Lang. All rights reserved.
     Portions (CFSQP) copyright @1993–1998 by Craig T. Lawrence, Jian L. Zhou, and Andre L. Tits. All
                                         Rights Reserved.
                                         Terms of License
   TreeMaker contains copyrighted code (CFSQP) that may only be used for non-profit purposes. TreeMaker
   may not be freely distributed.
   CFSQP's Conditions for External Use include the following
   1. The CFSQP routines may not be distributed to third parties. Interested parties should contact the authors
   directly.
   2. Due acknowledgment must be made of the use of the CFSQP routines in research reports or publications.
   Whenever such reports are released for public access, a copy should be forwarded to the authors of CFSQP.
   3. The CFSQP routines may only be used for research and development, unless it has been agreed
   otherwise with the authors in writing.
   For more information on CFSQP, see http://www.isr.umd.edu/Labs/CACSE/FSQP/fsqp.html
         To obtain a copy of the TreeMaker executable, please provide the following information:
                                           Your name
                           Your affiliation (must be a non-profit organization)
                                        Your e-mail address
                An affirmation that you will abide by CFSQP’s Conditions for External Use.
    An affirmation that you will only be using TreeMaker for non-profit purposes and will not redistribute the
                                            executable
            Confirmation that you are using a Macintosh™ computer (it won't run on anything else)
                                      sent to: rjlang@aol.com
   A copy of the executable will be emailed to you within a few weeks.
   If you like the program, drop me a line with your comments and attaboys. If you find bugs, drop me a line
   with a description and I’ll try to fix it in the next version. This software is provided as-is with no implied
   warranties of fitness or usability (but I hope you will find it to be be both fit and usable).
                                  1.0 Introduction

TreeMaker is a tool for origami design. Starting from a description of a desired origami model,
TreeMaker computes a crease pattern for folding a base for the model from an uncut square of
paper. This document describes TreeMaker, how you use it to design origami, and how it works.

   1.1     Background

Origami is the Japanese name for the art of paper-folding. The purest form of origami stipulates
that you fold one sheet of paper, which must be square, and no cutting is allowed. These rules
might seem restrictive, but over the hundreds of years that origami has been practiced, tens of
thousands of origami designs have been developed for birds, flowers, animals, fish, cars, planes,
and almost everything else under creation. Despite the age of the art, the vast majority of origami
models have been designed within the last thirty years. This relatively late bloom of the art is due
in part to a spread of the art worldwide and an increase in the number of its practitioners, but it is

                                          4