  EF

         BB

                  A
                                          A
                                                               F
             BB

                                        E
                                                  B
       CC
                                                                      H

                                                          C
 GH
                                                G
          CC
                                                                D

                  D

Figure 5.18. Full crease pattern and six-legged base.
If you try to collapse figure 5.18 into the base, you will have to flatten some valley folds and turn
several tri-state creases into valley or mountain folds, depending on how you stack the layers and
arrange the points. Although Tom Hull, Toshikazu Kawasaki, and others have identified several
rules for assigning mountain and valley folds to a crease pattern that will allow it to be folded
flat, I haven’t yet identified an algorithm to assign mountain and valley folds to a tree method
crease pattern — in fact, as you can tell by folding up a base, there is always more than one
distribution of mountain and valley folds for a given crease pattern. In any event, when you
collapse the base, all of the points will be free and unattached from the others and each segment
of the base is precisely the same length as corresponding segment on the tree. You can thin the
points further and add reverse folds, et cetera, to turn the base into a subject.

Much the same procedure can be used for any network of active polygons. However, what
happens if there are polygons with five, six, or more sides? You saw the jump in complexity
going from three to four corners was considerable. Although there was only one type of tree for a
triangle and two for a quadrilateral, for a five-sided polygon there are three possible types of
trees and the number rises quickly beyond that. So there are many more possibilities to
enumerate. In addition, computation of the crease pattern for higher-order polygons gets very
complicated very quickly, and you can imagine the difficulties as the number of points increases.
For a nineteen-pointed insect, the network of active polygons could conceivably consist of a
single nineteen-sided polygon! How would we ever collapse such a beast?

I recently discovered one solution: there is a generalization of the gusset quad that produces a
crease pattern for any active polygon. However, its construction is even more complex than the
construction of the gusset quad was. It turns out, though, that we need no more than the gusset
quad and the rabbit ear to fold a base for any tree.

Again, a paradox: we’ll simplify the design problem by making the tree more complicated.
Consider the tree in figure 5.19, which is a 5-pointed star. This graph leads to a set of active
paths that comprise a single five-sided polygon.

                              127