 Each line segment in the graph is called an edge of the graph; each endpoint of a line segment (or
point where two segments come together) is called a node. Each flap of the base corresponds to a
distinct edge of the graph, and since each flap has a specified length, each edge of the graph has a
length as well, which is the length of its associated flap. Thus, the planar graph for the six-legged
animal base shown in figure 5.2 has eight nodes and seven edges. In figure 2, I have assigned a
length of 1 to each edge of the graph, which implies that each segment in the base has the same
length. One can, of course, assign any desired combination of lengths — if you wanted an extra-
long tail, you could give it a length of 2 or 3 — but for simplicity, we’ll make all of the edges the
same in this example.

                              Foreleg        Hind leg

                                  1          1

                               111
                       Head                           Tail

                                  1          1

                              Foreleg        Hind leg

Figure 5.2. Planar graph for the six-legged base. Each edge of the graph has a length of 1 unit in
this example.
We will also restrict ourselves to bases that don’t contain any loops of paper, which correspond
to planar graphs that don’t have any cycles in them. If a base has a closed loop, that implies it has
a hole in it somewhere, which would imply cutting — a no-no, in origami design. (Of course, we
can always simulate a loop by joining two flaps together and hiding the joint.) A graph with no
cycles is called a tree graph or just tree. It’s easy to see that for any tree , the number of nodes is
always exactly one more than the number of edges. Thus, we will be searching for bases whose
projections are trees; for this reason, I call this design approach the tree method of design.

We will also divide the nodes into two types: terminal nodes are nodes that come at the end of a
single edge. Terminal nodes correspond to the tips of legs, wings, and other appendages. Nodes
formed where two or more edges come together are called internal nodes.

                   Terminal nodes


                             Internal nodes             Edges


                                 114