 Figure 5.14. Construction of the gusset quad for a quadrilateral ABCD. Inset the quadrilateral a
 distance h; then drop perpendiculars from the new corners to the original sides.

 Now we need some distances from the tree. Let lAC  be the distance from node A to node C on the
tree and lBD be the distance from node B to node D. In most cases (see below for the exceptions),
there is a unique solution for the distance h for which one of these two equations holds:
                                   ′ ′
                           AA AB + A C  + CCBC  = lAC , or
                                    ′ ′
                            BB BC  + B D  + DD AD = lBD.

Let us suppose we found a solution for the first equation. The diagonal A′C′ divides the inner
quadrilateral into two triangles. Find the intersections of the bisectors of each triangle and call
them B′′ and D′′ . (If the second equation gave the solution, you’d use the opposite diagonal of
the inner quadrilateral and find bisector intersections A′′  and C′′.) The points A′,  B′′, C′, and D′′
are used to construct the complete crease pattern.

                                                ′
                                 D′            C
                                  D′′
                                            B′′
                              ′
                            A                     B′

                          

 Figure 15. On the inner quadrilateral, construct the bisectors of each triangle to find points B′′
 and D′′ .
 You’ve now found all of the points necessary to construct the crease pattern; connect them with
 creases as shown in figure 16 to produce the mountain folds that form the spine and the one
 valley fold that forms the gusset. You will also have to construct tri-state creases from each
 internal node along the sides of the quad to complete the crease pattern. Figure 5.16 also shows
 the folded gusset quad and its tree.

                               C
         D

                                                        ′′
                                                       B      ′′
                          C′                                 D
                                                                    ′
                                                   C′              A
                D′′
                        B′′
            A′
                                                 C               D
                                         B                                   A

  A                                    B


                                 125