It’s also worth pointing out that we don’t show any terminal nodes along the edges of the square
because the paths between nodes G and E, E and F, and F and H are not active paths.

It can be shown that active paths never cross each other, so the only places where lines come
together on the square are terminal nodes. This pattern of lines breaks up the square into a set of
polygons. In some of the polygons, all of their sides are active paths (like the inverted-kite-
shaped quadrilateral in the center of figures 5.6 and 5.7). If one of the sides of a polygon lies on
the edge of a square, it may or may not be an active path (in figure 5.6 and 5.7, each triangle has
one side on the edge of the square that is not an active path.)

We’ll call a polygon whose corners are terminal nodes and whose sides are active paths or the
edge of the square an active polygon. Each active polygon has the property that all of its sides
map to the plane of projection of the base when the square is folded into a base. Consequently, to
find a crease pattern that collapses the square into the base, it is necessary to find a crease pattern
that maps the network of active paths onto the plane of projection of the base.

This sounds like we have added requirements and made our job harder, but in fact we have
actually simplified things. One of the things that makes origami design so difficult is the
interrelatedness of all the parts of the base; if you try to change the dimensions of one part of the
model, you have to take into account how that part interacts with the rest of the paper. But it
turns out that when you have a square broken up into active polygons, you can separate the
design into independent pieces. Recall that the tree is the projection of the base, which is folded
from the complete square. Each polygon on the square corresponds to a portion of the overall
base and if you collapse any polygon into a section of the base — which I call a subbase — the
projection of the subbase is itself a portion of the projection of the complete base, i.e., a portion
of the original tree. For example, figure 5.8 shows the polygons for our six-legged base and the
corresponding trees for each subbase. Note that since all of the corners of an active polygon must
be terminal nodes, the triangles at the bottom corners of the square are not active polygons and in
fact do not contribute to the base at all.


                                119