 Figure 5.16. (Left) The mountain and valley folds of the gusset quad. Two tri-state creases are
 shown. (Right) The folded version of the gusset quad.
 You can construct an equation for the distance h in terms of the coordinates of the four corners
and the distances; it’s a rather involved quadratic equation, but can be solved using a pocket
calculator and high-school algebra. For arbitrary quadrilaterals, there is not a simple method to
find the crease pattern by folding, but symmetric quadrilaterals (such as the one in the middle of
figure 5.8) can be found by folding alone.

I alluded to exceptions above; there are quadrilaterals for which the points A′, B′, C′, and D′ all
fall on a line. In these special cases, you don’t get an inner quadrilateral; all of the inner creases
collapse onto a line (or sometimes a point) and you get the simplified crease pattern shown in
figure 5.17. Jun Maekawa has proven a theorem — called, appropriately enough, the Maekawa
theorem — that says, in essence, any quadrilateral can have its edges collapsed onto a line using
a crease pattern similar to this one. However, only in a relatively small number of cases will the
lengths of the resulting flaps match the desired tree.

                                                   C
                          D


                  A                                          B

 Figure 5.17. The Maekawa crease pattern.
 The Japanese folder Toshiyuki Meguro has extensively explored crease patterns that collapse
 polygons onto lines and has coined the name “bun-shi,” or “molecules,” to describe such
 patterns. Just as individual molecules fit together to make a larger biological structure, so too do
 origami molecules fit together to make an origamical structure: the base.

 Using the rabbit ear crease pattern for triangles and the gusset quad crease pattern for
 quadrilaterals, you can fill in any active polygon network that consists of triangles and
 quadrilaterals to get the complete crease pattern for the base. Such a polygon network is the one
 for the six-legged base considered earlier in this article. Figure 5.18 shows the full crease pattern
 for the six-legged base and the resulting base. Unlike figure 5.1, this base is a real, foldable base;
 you can easily verify the crease pattern by cutting it out and folding it on the lines. As you can
 see, the projection of the base into the plane is indeed the tree, and all of the flaps have their
 proper length.


                                 126