Figure 5.3. Parts of a tree graph. Line segments are called edges of the graph; points where lines
end or come together are nodes. Terminal nodes are nodes with only one edge; internal nodes
have two or more edges.
Suppose we have a base that has been folded from a square and we construct its tree. If we
unfold the base, we get a square with a crease pattern that uniquely defines the base. The folding
sequence that transforms the square into the base can be thought of as a mapping between points
on the square and points on the tree.

If you think of the tree as the shadow of the base, you can see from figure 1 that wherever you
have vertical layers of paper, there are many points on the base that map to the same point on the
tree. However, at the terminal nodes of the tree, there is exactly one point on the square that
maps to the node. Thus, we can uniquely identify the points on the square that become the tips of
the flaps of the base.

Now consider the following thought experiment: suppose an ant were sitting at the tip of one of
the legs of the base and wished to travel to another part of the base — say, the tail — without
leaving the paper. It would have to walk down the leg to the body, down the body, and back out
the tail. The distance it traveled would be (length of the leg) + (length of the body) + (length of
the tail).


Figure 5.4. An ant wishes to go from a foreleg to the tail along the base. It can take several
different paths, but the most direct path is the path that lies in the plane of projection.
Now, let’s think about what the path of the ant would look like on the unfolded square (you can
imagine dipping the ant into ink so that it left a trail soaking through the paper as it walked). On
the square, the path might meander around a bit or it might go directly from one point to the
other, depending on the course of the ant. One thing is certain, however: the distance traveled on
the unfolded square must be at least as long as the minimum distance traveled along the base.


                                115