Lang


    Figure 3 : Left: The computed crease pattern with structural coloring. Right: Final crease pattern
    with mountain-valley assignment.

by TreeMaker, is shown in Figure 3. Now, it’s time to fold.

                                      4  Folding

The design is only half the battle of creating an origami ﬁgure. Actually, it’s even less than half. First, we
have to fold the crease pattern into the base; then we have to turn the base into the ﬁnished form. All we
are guaranteed from the algorithm is that the ﬂaps will be of the right number, have the right length, and be
connected to each other in the way we originally speciﬁed. But there are no guarantees on the ﬂap width,
cross section, arrangement of layers, or much of anything else. And at this point in the process, we don’t
even have a base: we just have the crease pattern for it.
    And so, that’s what we start with: folding the crease pattern into the base. To accomplish this, we must
ﬁrst transfer the crease pattern from the design to the actual square1. This is done by measuring the positions
of a few key points, and then forming all of the other creases based on those initial measurements, as shown
in Figure 4.
    Most complex origami bases have the property that you can’t fold them one crease at a time; instead,
you must bring all of the creases together at once. That is the case here, so we bring all of the edges of
the square together in a single motion. This process is called “the collapse” in origami, because we are
“collapsing” the square down to the folded base, as shown in Figures 4–5.
    “Collapse”-type folds had appeared in origami occasionally throughout the years, but its ubiquity in
complex algorithmic designs came as something of a surprise in the origami world. Published origami
designs almost always consisted of a sequence of relatively simple steps, leading smoothly from the initial
square to the ﬁnished form with no individual step requiring more than three or four creases to happen at
once. But complex modern designs are not like that; in fact, it is relatively rare that such a simple folding
pattern exists for a complex crease-pattern-based design. Instead, they almost always require all creases to
be brought together at once—a process my colleague Brian Chan has dubbed (somewhat mischeviously)

  1The paper here is a 40 cm square of abaca/hemp paper made by Michael LaFosse, a master papermaker (http://www.
origamido.com) and origami artist whose handmade papers are prized by origami insect folders around the world.

                                          16