Lang

    Fundamental to my own motivation was the goal of developing truly useful techniques for design, and
for several years I designed ever more complex origami ﬁgures using circles and spacers (the latter were
my precursors to “rivers,” see below) and nothing more technological than pencil and paper. (My colleague
Meguro added compass and straightedge to his crease pattern design arsenal.) However, a paradigm that
framed my ideas early on was the idea that it might eventually be possible to use computer programming to
solve for complex origami ﬁgures, and I began sketching out algorithms for this in the late 1980s. (Early
discovery: FORTRAN 77 is a lousy language for computational origami.) Beginning in the 1990s, I began
writing what became my program TreeMaker (in Object Pascal, then C++), a design program that served
both as a repository of algorithms as I developed them and a way to probe their validity and limits [8]. By
1998, TreeMaker was up to version 4.0, and had become a useful tool rather than just a toy program; in fact,
I realized that it was now capable of solving for origami design patterns that were beyond the ability of an
individual armed with only pencil, paper, and compass.
    Which is not to say that pencil-and-paper origami designers have not been creating designs as complex
as those that TreeMaker could create; on the contrary, by recognizing fortuitious geometric alignments and
patterns, origami artists could, and still do, design with pencil and paper extremely complex and beautiful
works. The most complex origami designs today are usually human-designed, not computer-designed. While
its crease pattern may be drawn on computer, advanced origami is designed using a mixture of mathematical
ideas and artistic inspiration, with the designer’s own imagination the most important tool.
    Still, a computerized design serves a useful pedagogical purpose: it provides a vivid illustration of the
power of mathematical ideas in achieving a distinctly non-mathematical result. And so, in the bulk of this
paper, I would like to walk the reader through the process of concept, design, and folding, for an origami
ﬁgure: an arthropod. The greatest successes of the circle-river method of design came in the design of
insects, spiders, and their ilk, and so I will present here one of my ﬁrst TreeMaker designs: my “Scorpion,
opus 379” [5]. Although I have designed more complex ﬁgures since then, this remains one of my favorites,
both for the geometric structure of its design and its overall appearance.

                                      2   Design

The journey begins with the subject and its abstract description: a tree graph (the “tree” in TreeMaker). Or,
more prosaically, a “stick ﬁgure.” The stick ﬁgure captures the information that will be produced by the
design algorithm, and so its properties—the number, lengths, and connectivities of its edges—are the choice
of the designer. The circle-river method of origami design is a step in the creation of a folded ﬁgure, but it
does not seek to create a speciﬁc 3-D form; rather, it produces a shape that has “enough material in the right
places.” Speciﬁcally, it produces a folded shape that has a ﬂap of paper for every appendage of the subject.
The algorithm gives relatively little control over the width of those ﬂaps, but it lets one specify the number
of ﬂaps, length of each ﬂap, and how they are connected to one another, and for some subjects, that is very
useful indeed. That information can be described concisely by a stick ﬁgure—which, using the terminology
of graph theory, is an “edge-weighted tree graph.” Hence, the tree is the starting point for a TreeMaker
design.
    The simplest way to construct the tree is to literally overlay the stick ﬁgure on a photograph of the
subject, as illustrated in Figure 1. Each stick represents an appendage or body segment of the subject, and
will be represented in the origami ﬁgure by a ﬂap of paper. The folded shape will be a collection of ﬂaps; we
call this collection a “base.” Each edge of the tree graph must be assigned a length, which will be the length
of the associated ﬂap of paper. By measuring lengths of the various body parts in the photograph, one can
choose the desired lengths of the ﬂaps, although it must be noted that one might commonly adjust desired
ﬂap lengths from their literal dimensions for artistic reasons.

                                          12