                                  Bridges 2009: Mathematics, Music, Art, Architecture, Culture

                 Mathematical Methods in Origami Design

                                     Robert J. Lang
                                   Langorigami.com
                                Alamo, California, USA
                               robert@langorigami.com
                            http://www.langorigami.com

                                       Abstract
     The marriage of art and mathematics has been widespread and productive, but almost nowhere more productive than
     in the world of origami. In this paper I will discuss how mathematical ideas led to the development of powerful
     tools for origami design and will present a step-by-step illustration of the design and realization of a representational
     origami ﬁgure using mathematical design algorithms. Along the way, I will discuss how these mathematical concepts
     have led to new levels of creative expression within this art.

                                   1   Introduction

The marriage of art and mathematics has been fruitful and productive. Mathematical concepts inspire, en-
able, and enrich artistic forms, and in many cases, mathematical concepts lead to entirely new expressions,
visual, auditory, and conceptual, outside of the traditional milieu of art. It is relatively rare, though, that
mathematical ideas have led to a revolution within an existing art—that is, enabling artists to do what they
wanted to do within their art, but were previously unable to accomplish. That exact thing is what has hap-
pened within the art of origami, the Japanese art of paper-folding (usually from an uncut square), over the
last twenty years or so. Beginning in the late 1970s and early 1980s, and accelerating more-or-less continu-
ously since then, mathematical design techniques have become essential elements of the origami designers’
toolkit, allowing the creation of works only dreamed of in the past, enabling newer, richer, more diverse
forms of artistic expression.
    Now, while it is tempting to present the world of mathematical origami design as a simple, linear thread
of development, in fact there were roots stretching back into the 1950s and 1960s and several different ap-
proaches to mathematical design in the 1970s and 1980s investigated by origami artists such as Peter Engel,
Jun Maekawa, and Fumiaki Kawahata, among others. But I will talk about the approach I am personally most
familiar with, and with which I was closely involved in the development of: circle-river packing. This was,
I believe, the ﬁrst systematic design method that could be used to create and design arbitrarily complicated
origami structures.
    As often happens in mathematics, when the time is ripe, the same ideas can occur to multiple people,
and this was the case with circle-river packing: I (in the US) [1, 3, 4, 6] and Toshiyuki Meguro (in Japan)
[10, 9] both developed the concept of circle packing in the late 1980s and then met and compared notes
and ideas beginning in 1992, ﬁnding surprising overlap between our approaches and sharing ideas in the
years that followed. (Shades of Newton and Leibniz, with two differences: Meguro and I got on quite
well, and we’re only talking about paper-folding, not calculus!) In the years following our meeting, we
both traded and reﬁned our concepts and were joined by others who built on and expanded the basic ideas
into a regular suite of design algorithms. (I should mention speciﬁcally that in recent years I have greatly
enjoyed collaborating with Professor Erik Demaine of MIT on the development of improved algorithms and
expanding their underlying rigor.)

                                          11