Lang

folds,” which are, essentially nested sets of inversions of the layers of each ﬂap. Sink folds are tedious to
perform (any origami teaching session is guaranteed to elicit a series of groans when a set of sink folds is
announced), but they are conceptually straightforward to perform. Figure 6 show the base with some (left)
and all (right) of its layers sunken. In the end, the folded paper shape looks not unlike the original tree graph:
a collection of long, skinny, connected sticks, each of which will become an appendage of the subject.


            Figure 6 : Left: The partially narrowed base. Right: The fully narrowed base.

    Last comes the shaping. There is no algorithm for this—and, in fact, this is one part of the process
where both craftsmanship and artistry are preeminent in the process. A representional origami ﬁgure, no
matter how realistic, is, in any absolute sense, still a rather crude approximation of the subject. The artist
selects what features to emphasize and what features to minimize in order to convey the essential character
of the subject. Craftsmanship is called for, too, to insure that every visible edge, every visible fold falls in
the right place to convey the desired impression. A misplaced edge, an unintended wrinkle—these can spoil
the visual effect, for the human eye is drawn to lines, ignores smooth surfaces. It is often the case that the
shaping takes by far the greatest amount of time when creating a complex origami ﬁgure, and this process can
last, literally, for days. (For this scorpion, shaping took only a few hours in total.) Figures 7–8 show the ﬁnal
process of shaping, beginning with narrowing of the legs, then proceeding through shaping of the tail and
claws, and ending up with the ﬁnal scorpion form. The narrowing and shaping of the legs is accomplished by
selectively dampening ﬂaps as they are folded, a technique called “wet-folding” that was introduced by the
great 20th-century origami master Yoshizawa; strips of drafting tape hold the ﬁgure in position as it dries.

                                  5   Final Thoughts

The early successes of circle-river packing and its relatives were most vividly seen in the subject matter of
origami insects and their kin. In the 1970s, origami insects were considered the ultimate challenge, and at
least one origami book ﬂatly declared that an origami grasshopper was “impossible” from a single square. In
the 1980s, grasshoppers were not only possible, but folded and then surpassed; and the 1990s saw a golden
age of origami insects informally known as the “Bug Wars,” in which origami creators vied with one another
for the most realistic, leggiest, pointiest, wingiest, horniest creature they could ﬁnd! (Entomology journals
saw a noticeable uptick in their origami subscribers, as origami artists sought out the most challenging
possible subjects to take on.) (See [2, 7] for some of my own contributions to this battle.)

                                          18