                                                      Mathematical Methods in Origami Design


                                               pincer         pincer
                                           pincer                 pincer


                                               claw          claw


                                       leg 1                          leg 1


                                       leg 2                          leg 2


                                      leg 3            tail            leg 3


                                            leg 4                leg 4

    Figure 1 : Left: the stick ﬁgure superimposed over a photograph of the subject. Right: represen-
    tation of the stick ﬁgure by circles and rivers.

    We then transform the stick ﬁgure into geometric shapes that represent regions of the paper required by
each ﬂap. These shapes are the light and dark regions in the ﬁgure. Flaps that are loose at one end, like the
legs or pincers, are represented by circles (light), whose radius is equal to the length of the ﬂap. Flaps that
are connected to other ﬂaps at both ends, like the body segments or the “arms,” are represented by constant-
width curves called “rivers” (dark); the width of the river is equal to the length of the corresponding ﬂap.
Each geometric shape—circle or river—represents the minimum amount of paper required for each of the
ﬂaps. It is a remarkable fact that for any valid arrangement of circles and rivers that specify the minimum
paper needed, there exists a crease pattern that works for that exact arrangement of circles and rivers.
    And so, we must ﬁnd the most tightly packed arrangement of the circles and rivers within a square. The
major rules that apply to this packing are:

  • the circles and rivers must be as large as possible but maintain their same relative size to one another;
  • they may not overlap;
  • the circles do not have to be wholly inside the square, but their centers must be within the square;
  • the incidences between the various circles and rivers must match the incidences of their corresponding
    edges in the tree graph.

    The larger the origami base is for a given size square, the more efﬁcient it is; the fewer the layers in
each ﬂap; and, generally, the easier it is to fold. And so the ﬁrst stage of origami design consists of an
optimization: ﬁnding the most efﬁcient packing of the circles and rivers. This can be done by hand (and it
often is), but for this particular design, it is much faster to use TreeMaker, which has a nonlinear constrained
optimization solver built in. (In the late 1990s, this process took seconds to minutes; with the 1000-fold
increase in computing speed, it is now virtually instanteous.) To use TreeMaker, we start by drawing the
stick ﬁgure, as shown in Figure 2 and then typing in the desired lengths of each ﬂap, shown as decimal
numbers next to the lines of the stick ﬁgure.
    The next step is to ﬁnd the optimum packing of circles and rivers so that all of the circle centers wind
up inside the square. TreeMaker does this in a fraction of a second, giving the circle arrangement shown
in Figure 2. (The rivers are not displayed by TreeMaker, but the reader can perhaps imagine them winding

                                          13